>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING,
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
JUDY WOODRUFF. >> Ifill:
AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
TONIGHT: SAYING HE IS "WELL
AWARE" OF THE PRESSURE ON WOMEN
TO HAVE AN ABORTION, PEPO
FRANCIS GIVES PRIESTS PERMISSION
FRANCIS GIVES PRIESTS
PERMISSION TO FORGIVE THEM.
TO FORGIVE THEM. >>
Ifill: ALSO AHEAD THIS
>> Ifill: ALSO AHEAD THIS
TUESDAY, FIGHTING EXTREMISM IN
TUESDAY, FIGHTING EXTREMISM
IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
THE MIDDLE EAST. TUNISIA
GRAPPLES WITH HOME GROWN
TUNISIA GRAPPLES WITH HOME GROWN
TERRORISM, AND AN EXODUS OF
YOUNG MEN WHO ARE JOINING
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS.
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS. >>
Woodruff: PLUS, WHY RACE
>> Woodruff: PLUS, WHY
RACE MATTERS TODAY.
MATTERS TODAY. WE KICK
OFF A YEAR LONG SERIES
WE KICK OFF A YEAR LONG SERIES
WITH A LOOK AT HOW ECONOMIC
MILITOBY CAN AMPLIFY RACIAL
MILITOBY CAN AMPLIFY
RACIAL DIVISIONS.
DIVISIONS. >> 25% OF
THE GAP IN EARNINGS
>> 25% OF THE GAP IN EARNINGS
BETWEEN BLACKS AND WHITES THAT
IS DRIVEN SIMPLY BY THE FACT
THAT BLACKS TEND TO GROW UP IN
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT ARE MUCH
WORSE, ON AVERAGE, THAN WHITES.
>> Ifill: THAT AND MORE ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THIS WAS ANOTHER WILD
DAY ON WALL STREET AND MARKETS
DAY ON WALL STREET AND
MARKETS AROUND THE WORLD.
AROUND THE WORLD. THE
SELLING STARTED AFTER CHINA
THE SELLING STARTED AFTER CHINA
REPORTED ITS INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY
HIT A THREE-YEAR LOW LAST MONTH.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 470 POINTS TO CLOSE BELOW
LOST 470 POINTS TO
CLOSE BELOW 16,060.
16,060. THE NASDAQ
FELL 140 POINTS, AND
THE NASDAQ FELL 140 POINTS, AND
THE S&P 500 DROPPED NEARLY 60.
ALL THREE WERE DOWN ABOUT THREE
ALL THREE WERE DOWN
ABOUT THREE PERCENT.
PERCENT. AND THE PRICE
OF OIL FELL EIGHT
AND THE PRICE OF OIL FELL EIGHT
PERCENT, AFTER A THREE-DAY
PERCENT, AFTER A
THREE-DAY SURGE.
SURGE. >> Woodruff:
A COUNTY CLERK IN
>> Woodruff: A COUNTY CLERK IN
KENTUCKY REFUSED AGAIN TODAY TO
ISSUE MARRIAGE LICENSES TO SAME-
SEX COUPLES, EVEN AFTER THE U.S.
SEX COUPLES, EVEN AFTER THE
U.S. SUPREME COURT REJECTED HER
SUPREME COURT
REJECTED HER APPEAL.
APPEAL. INSTEAD, KIM
DAVIS SAID SHE'S
INSTEAD, KIM DAVIS SAID SHE'S
INVOKING "GOD'S AUTHORITY."
IN A STATEMENT, SHE DECLARED:
"IT IS NOT A LIGHT ISSUE FOR ME.
"IT IS NOT A LIGHT ISSUE FOR
ME. IT IS A HEAVEN OR HELL
IT IS A HEAVEN OR
HELL DECISION."
DECISION." DAVIS ALSO
SQUARED OFF AGAINST
DAVIS ALSO SQUARED OFF AGAINST
SAME-SEX COUPLES WHO CAME TO HER
OFFICE SEEKING LICENSES, AND
OFFICE SEEKING LICENSES,
AND LEFT, VOICING THEIR
LEFT, VOICING THEIR
FRUSTRATIONS.
FRUSTRATIONS. >> WE
THOUGHT THE INJUNCTION
>> WE THOUGHT THE INJUNCTION
WOULD DO SOMETHING BUT IT'S
WOULD DO SOMETHING
BUT IT'S POINTLESS.
POINTLESS. THEY HAVE
AN INJUNCTION FROM A
THEY HAVE AN INJUNCTION FROM A
FEDERAL JUDGE THAT IS POINTLESS.
NO ONE CAN FORCE HER TO DO HER
NO ONE CAN FORCE
HER TO DO HER JOB.
JOB. SHE CAN CONTINUE
TO DENY US AND
SHE CAN CONTINUE TO DENY US AND
TREAT US LIKE SECOND CLASS
CITIZENS THAT'S JUST HOW IT IS.
THERE'S NOTHING WE CAN DO ABOUT
THERE'S NOTHING WE
CAN DO ABOUT IT.
IT. >> Woodruff: A
FEDERAL JUDGE HAS
>> Woodruff: A FEDERAL JUDGE
HAS SUMMONED DAVIS TO APPEAR
SUMMONED DAVIS TO APPEAR
THURSDAY TO FACE A POSSIBLE
CITATION FOR CONTEMPT OF COURT.
>> Ifill: CALIFORNIA WILL
SHARPLY SCALE BACK ITS USE OF
SOLITARY CONFINEMENT IN PRISONS,
IN A MAJOR VICTORY FOR INMATES
WHO SUED OVER THE PRACTICE.
THEY ARGUED THAT ISOLATING GANG
LEADERS INDEFINITELY, SOMETIMES
FOR MORE THAN 10 YEARS, WAS
CRUEL AND UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT.
THE NEW POLICY LIMITS SOLITARY
CONFINEMENT TO GANG MEMBERS WHO
COMMIT NEW CRIMES IN PRISON.
COMMIT NEW CRIMES IN PRISON. >>
Woodruff: THE LATEST BATCH OF
>> Woodruff: THE LATEST BATCH
OF HILLARY CLINTON'S E-MAILS AS
HILLARY CLINTON'S E-MAILS
AS SECRETARY OF STATE DREW
SECRETARY OF STATE
DREW SCRUTINY TODAY.
SCRUTINY TODAY. LAST NIGHT,
THE STATE DEPARTMENT
LAST NIGHT, THE STATE DEPARTMENT
RELEASED ANOTHER 7,100 PAGES
FROM THE PRIVATE COMPUTER SERVER
THAT CLINTON USED IN OFFICE.
THAT CLINTON USED IN OFFICE. 125
HELD INFORMATION THAT'S NOW
125 HELD INFORMATION THAT'S NOW
DEEMED CLASSIFIED, BUT WAS NOT
WHEN THE E-MAILS WERE SENT.
STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESMAN MARK
TONER WAS ASKED ABOUT THAT
TONER WAS ASKED
ABOUT THAT TODAY.
TODAY. >> IT'S VERY
DIFFICULT FOR US
>> IT'S VERY DIFFICULT FOR US
AND I SAID THIS BEFORE TO GO
AND I SAID THIS BEFORE TO
GO BACK AND JUDGE WHAT THE
BACK AND JUDGE WHAT THE
CIRCUMSTANCES WERE AT THE TIME
THIS INFORMATION WAS SHARED AND
MAKE A JUDGEMENT ON WHETHER THAT
INFORMATION WAS CLASSIFIED AT
INFORMATION WAS
CLASSIFIED AT THE TIME.
THE TIME. CLEAR
ISSUE.LACK AND WHI
CLEAR ISSUE.LACK AND WHI WE
SEE NOTHING AT THIS POINT IN
WE SEE NOTHING AT THIS POINT IN
TIME UP UNTIL NOW THAT WOULD
INDICATE THAT ANY OF THIS
INFORMATION WAS MARKED
CLASSIFIED AT THE TIME.
CLASSIFIED AT THE TIME. >>
Woodruff: THE E-MAIL ISSUE
>> Woodruff: THE E-MAIL ISSUE
HAS WEIGHED ON CLINTON'S
CAMPAIGN FOR THE DEMOCRATIC
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION.
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION. SHE
NOW ACKNOWLEDGES IT WAS A
SHE NOW ACKNOWLEDGES IT WAS A
MISTAKE TO USE A PRIVATE ACCOUNT
MISTAKE TO USE A PRIVATE
ACCOUNT FOR OFFICIAL E-MAILS.
FOR OFFICIAL E-MAILS.
>> Ifill: IN THAILAND,
AUTHORITIES HAVE MADE ANOTHER
ARREST IN LAST MONTH'S
DEADLY BOMBING AT A BANGKOK
DEADLY BOMBING AT
A BANGKOK SHRINE.
SHRINE. OFFICIALS SAY
HE RESEMBLES THE
OFFICIALS SAY HE RESEMBLES THE
MAN SPOTTED ON SURVEILLANCE
VIDEO PLANTING THE B
VIDEO PLANTING THE B THE
SUSPECT IS A FOREIGNER AND
THE SUSPECT IS A FOREIGNER
AND WAS DETAINED IN EASTERN
WAS DETAINED IN EASTERN
THAILAND, NEAR THE CAMBODIAN
THAILAND, NEAR THE
CAMBODIAN BORDER.
BORDER. AFTER HIS
ARREST, OFFICERS
AFTER HIS ARREST, OFFICERS
DISPLAYED HIS BELONGINGS AND
DISPLAYED HIS BELONGINGS
AND SENT HIM TO BANGKOK
SENT HIM TO BANGKOK
FOR QUESTIONING.
FOR QUESTIONING. >>
Woodruff: THE DRAMA
>> Woodruff: THE DRAMA
SURROUNDING THE MASS MIGRATION
ACROSS EUROPE OF PEOPLE FLEEING
VIOLENCE AND POVERTY IN SYRIA,
LIBYA, AND OTHER NATIONS, TOOK A
LIBYA, AND OTHER NATIONS, TOOK
A NEW TURN TO CHAOS TODAY IN
NEW TURN TO CHAOS TODAY
IN BUDAPEST, HUNGARY.
BUDAPEST, HUNGARY. JAMES
MATES OF INDEPENDENT NEWS,
JAMES MATES OF INDEPENDENT
NEWS, REPORTS FROM THE SCENE.
REPORTS FROM THE SCENE. >>
Reporter: THE SCENE THIS
>> Reporter: THE SCENE THIS
MORNING AS CROWDS OF MIGRANTS,
MANY REFUGEES FROM BACK HOME,
TRIED TO CROWD ON TO TRAINS AT
THE AUSTRIAN CAPITAL IN SR VIENA
AND FROM THERE TO A WELCOME
PROMISED IN GERMANY.
YESTERDAY ALL TRAINS WERE
YESTERDAY ALL TRAINS
WERE CANCELED.
CANCELED. TICKETS OR NO TICKETS.
TICKETS OR NO TICKETS.
CHAOTIC DECISION MAKING.
PEOPLE GENUINELY IN LIMBO.
PEOPLE GENUINELY IN LIMBO. THEY
WANT MOVE OUT OF HUNGARY AS
THEY WANT MOVE OUT OF HUNGARY
AS QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE.
QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE. FOR
THE TIME BEING, THEY'RE
FOR THE TIME BEING,
THEY'RE GOING NOWHERE.
GOING NOWHERE. LIMBO IS
NOT COMFORTABLE ON A
LIMBO IS NOT COMFORTABLE
ON A SCORCHING HOT DAY.
SCORCHING HOT DAY. AND EVEN
THE SHADE WAS PRECIOUS.
AND EVEN THE SHADE WAS PRECIOUS.
THERE ARE AS MANY CHILDREN AS
ADULTS HERE AND NO INDICATION AT
ALL WHERE THEY WILL BE SPENDING
ALL WHERE THEY WILL
BE SPENDING TONIGHT.
TONIGHT. THE UNDERGROUND
STATION BENEATH
THE UNDERGROUND STATION BENEATH
THE MAIN TERMINUS IS PERHAPS THE
MOST LIKELY, PACKED FULL TODAY
EXCEPT WHEN RUMORS SPREAD THAT
THEY WERE TO BE TAKEN TO TRANSIT
THEY WERE TO BE TAKEN
TO TRANSIT CAMPS.
CAMPS. THESE BUSES
WERE HERE TO TAKE
THESE BUSES WERE HERE TO TAKE
THE REFUGEES AWAY, BUT NONE WERE
THE REFUGEES AWAY,
BUT NONE WERE GOING.
GOING. LOOKS LIKE
THEY BROUGHT UP SOME
LOOKS LIKE THEY BROUGHT
UP SOME BULLS HERE.
BULLS HERE. ARE THEY
GOING TO TAKE YOU
ARE THEY GOING TO
TAKE YOU SOMEWHERE?
SOMEWHERE? >> NO, NO.
>> NO, NO. THEY GO TO THE CAMP.
THEY GO TO THE CAMP. >>
Reporter: WILL YOU GO.
>> Reporter: WILL YOU GO.
IS THIS NO, OF COURSE NOT.
IS THIS NO, OF COURSE NOT. >>
Reporter: HUNDREDS OF MILES
>> Reporter: HUNDREDS OF MILES
AWAY ON HUNGARY'S BORDER WITH
SERBIA, THE FLOOD OF REFUGEES
INTO THE EUROPEAN UNION
CONTINUES UNAWAITED.
CONTINUES UNAWAITED. HUNGARY
SAYS FROM NOW ON ALL
HUNGARY SAYS FROM NOW ON ALL
THESE PEOPLE MUST REGISTER FOR
THESE PEOPLE MUST REGISTER
FOR ASYLUM FOR THEM.
ASYLUM FOR THEM. THEY WILL
DO EVERYTHING TO AVOID
THEY WILL DO EVERYTHING
TO AVOID THAT.
THAT. AFRAID THEY
WILL BE CAUGHT ON
AFRAID THEY WILL BE CAUGHT ON
THE BORDERS BY HUNGARIAN POLICE.
>> WE HOPE WE WILL PASS
PEACEFULLY BECAUSE WE DON'T WANT
PEACEFULLY BECAUSE WE
DON'T WANT TO STAY THERE.
TO STAY THERE. >>
Reporter: EUROPE'S
>> Reporter: EUROPE'S
SUPPOSEDLY STRICT RULES ON
BORDERS AND REFUGEES NOW
HOPELESSLY INADEQUATE TO DEAL
WITH THE SHEER NUMBERS OF PEOPLE
WITH THE SHEER NUMBERS
OF PEOPLE COMING.
COMING. >> Woodruff:
ELSEWHERE, FIGHTS
>> Woodruff: ELSEWHERE, FIGHTS
BROKE OUT AT THE GREEK BORDER
WITH MACEDONIA, WHEN HUNDREDS OF
PEOPLE TRIED TO RUSH CROSSING
PEOPLE TRIED TO RUSH
CROSSING POINTS.
POINTS. >> Ifill:
ANTI-GOVERNMENT
>> Ifill: ANTI-GOVERNMENT
PROTESTERS IN LEBANON BRIEFLY
OCCUPIED THE ENVIRONMENT
MINISTRY TODAY IN BEIRUT.
IT WAS THE LATEST MOVE IN A
CAMPAIGN THAT STARTED WITH
DEMANDS TO COLLECT GARBAGE ON
DEMANDS TO COLLECT
GARBAGE ON TIME.
TIME. ROUGHLY 30
MEMBERS OF THE SO-
ROUGHLY 30 MEMBERS OF THE SO-
CALLED "YOU STINK" MOVEMENT
STAGED A SIT-IN TODAY.
STAGED A SIT-IN TODAY. THEY
CHANTED SLOGANS AND CALLED
THEY CHANTED SLOGANS AND CALLED
FOR THE MINISTER'S REMOVAL FROM
FOR THE MINISTER'S
REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
OFFICE. >> Woodruff:
THE UNITED NATIONS
>> Woodruff: THE UNITED NATIONS
TODAY CONFIRMED THAT "ISLAMIC
STATE" MILITANTS IN SYRIA HAVE
BLOWN UP THE 2,000 YEAR-OLD
BLOWN UP THE 2,000
YEAR-OLD TEMPLE OF BEL.
TEMPLE OF BEL. SATELLITE
IMAGES SHOWED THE MAIN
SATELLITE IMAGES SHOWED THE MAIN
STRUCTURE AND A LINE OF COLUMNS
HAVE BEEN REDUCED TO RUBBLE.
IT HAD BEEN ONE OF THE BEST-
PRESERVED SITES IN THE ANCIENT
PRESERVED SITES IN THE
ANCIENT CITY OF PALMYRA.
CITY OF PALMYRA. >> Ifill:
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
>> Ifill: BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
A TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT
PANEL IS CALLING FOR AIRLINES TO
BE MORE UP-FRONT ABOUT FEES AND
BE MORE UP-FRONT ABOUT
FEES AND SEAT SIZE.
SEAT SIZE. THE COMMITTEE
FOUND CHANGE AND
THE COMMITTEE FOUND CHANGE AND
CANCELLATION FEES ARE OFTEN
CANCELLATION FEES
ARE OFTEN HIDDEN.
HIDDEN. IT ALSO
EXPRESSED CONCERN ABOUT
IT ALSO EXPRESSED CONCERN ABOUT
THE SPACE BETWEEN SEAT ROWS,
ESPECIALLY IF PASSENGERS HAVE TO
ESPECIALLY IF PASSENGERS
HAVE TO EVACUATE.
EVACUATE. IT'S GONE
FROM 34 INCHES TO 31
IT'S GONE FROM 34 INCHES
TO 31 ON MOST PLANES.
ON MOST PLANES. >> Woodruff:
IT TURNS OUT THAT
>> Woodruff: IT TURNS OUT THAT
MOST PEOPLE'S HEARTS ARE OLDER
THAN THEY ARE SO TO SPEAK.
THAN THEY ARE SO TO SPEAK. THE
CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
REPORTS HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE,
OBESITY AND OTHER FACTORS CAN
ACCELERATE THE ORGAN'S AGING
ACCELERATE THE ORGAN'S
AGING PROCESS.
PROCESS. THE C.D.C.
ESTIMATES THAT ON
THE C.D.C. ESTIMATES THAT ON
AVERAGE, AMERICAN MEN HAVE
HEARTS THAT ARE NEARLY EIGHT
YEARS OLDER THAN THEIR ACTUAL
YEARS OLDER THAN
THEIR ACTUAL AGE.
AGE. FOR AMERICAN WOMEN, THE AGE
FOR AMERICAN WOMEN, THE AGE
DIFFERENCE IS ABOUT FIVE AND A-
DIFFERENCE IS ABOUT
FIVE AND A- HALF YEARS.
HALF YEARS. >> Ifill:
AND, LOS ANGELES WILL
>> Ifill: AND, LOS ANGELES WILL
BE THE U.S. CANDIDATE TO HOST
THE 2024 SUMMER OLYMPICS.
THE UNITED STATES OLYMPIC
COMMITTEE ANNOUNCED THE DECISION
TODAY, AFTER BOSTON PULLED OUT
TODAY, AFTER BOSTON
PULLED OUT OF THE RACE.
OF THE RACE. LOS ANGELES
WILL COMPETE AGAINST
LOS ANGELES WILL COMPETE AGAINST
PARIS, ROME, BUDAPEST AND
PARIS, ROME, BUDAPEST
AND HAMBURG, GERMANY.
HAMBURG, GERMANY. STILL
TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE POPE ALLOWS PRIESTS TO
FORGIVE CATHOLIC WOMEN WHO HAVE
FORGIVE CATHOLIC WOMEN
WHO HAVE HAD ABORTIONS.
HAD ABORTIONS.
ICE BREAKERS, DRILLING FOR OIL
AND CONSERVING THE ARCTIC
AND CONSERVING THE
ARCTIC WILDERNESS.
WILDERNESS. AND MUCH MORE.
>> Woodruff: THE POPE'S
STATEMENT ON ABORTION TODAY WAS
A SURPRISING MOVE AND SEEN BY
MANY AS THE LATEST IN A SERIES
OF STEPS HE HAS TAKEN TO MAKE
THE CHURCH MORE OPEN AND
THE CHURCH MORE
OPEN AND INCLUSIVE.
INCLUSIVE. POPE FRANCIS
ANNOUNCED HE WILL
POPE FRANCIS ANNOUNCED HE WILL
GIVE ALL PRIESTS THE DISCRETION
TO FORGIVE WOMEN WHO HAVE HAD
TO FORGIVE WOMEN WHO
HAVE HAD ABORTIONS.
ABORTIONS. THE POPE
SAID THAT COULD BE DONE
THE POPE SAID THAT COULD BE
DONE DURING THE UPCOMING
DURING THE UPCOMING "YEAR
OF MERCY," LASTING FROM
"YEAR OF MERCY," LASTING FROM
DECEMBER OF TS YEHIAR TO
DECEMBER OF TS YEHIAR
TO NOVEMBER OF 2016.
NOVEMBER OF 2016. IN
A LETTER, HE WROTE:
IN A LETTER, HE WROTE: "I AM
WELL AWARE OF THE PRESSURE
"I AM WELL AWARE OF THE PRESSURE
THAT HAS LED THEM TO THIS
DECISION... I HAVE MET SO MANY
WOMEN WHO BEAR IN THEIR HEART
THE SCAR OF THIS AGONIZING AND
THE SCAR OF THIS AGONIZING
AND PAINFUL DECISION.
PAINFUL DECISION. WHAT HAS
HAPPENED IS PROFOUNDLY
WHAT HAS HAPPENED IS PROFOUNDLY
UNJUST... THE FORGIVENESS OF GOD
CANNOT BE DENIED TO ONE WHO HAS
CANNOT BE DENIED TO ONE
WHO HAS REPENTED..."
REPENTED..." THE POPE'S
WORDS COME JUST WEEKS
THE POPE'S WORDS COME JUST WEEKS
BEFORE HIS FIRST VISIT TO THE
BEFORE HIS FIRST VISIT
TO THE UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES. ELIZBAETH
DIAS COVERS RELIGION
ELIZBAETH DIAS COVERS RELIGION
FOR "TIME MAGAZINE" AND WILL BE
FOR "TIME MAGAZINE" AND WILL
BE TRAVELING WITH THE POPE.
TRAVELING WITH THE
POPE. SO WELCOME.
SO WELCOME. AS I
UNDERSTAND IT, ELIZABETH,
AS I UNDERSTAND IT, ELIZABETH,
BISHOPS HAVE ALREADY HAD
PERMISSION TO GRANT FORGIVENESS
TO WOMEN WHO HAVE HAD ABORTIONS.
WHAT IS SIGNIFICANT ABOUT WHAT
WHAT IS SIGNIFICANT ABOUT
WHAT THE POPE IS SAYING?
THE POPE IS SAYING? >>
POPE FRANCIS EXTENDED
>> POPE FRANCIS EXTENDED
SOMETHING GIVE TON BISHOPS, THE
POWER TO FORGIVE SIN IN THE
CATHOLIC CHURCH TO ALL PRIESTS.
THIS CAN SPEED UP THE PROCESS
FOR OPENING THE DOORS TO WHOEVER
WANTS TO COME TO THE CHURCH AND
WHOEVER ELSE, THEY CAN RECEIVE
THE GIFT OF MERCY AS THE POPE IS
THE GIFT OF MERCY AS THE POPE
IS CALLING IT THROUGHOUT THIS
CALLING IT THROUGHOUT
THIS JUBILEE YEAR.
JUBILEE YEAR. >>
Reporter: WHAT'S THE
>> Reporter: WHAT'S THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF THAT?
SIGNIFICANCE OF THAT? THIS
COMES AS WE JUST NOTED A
THIS COMES AS WE JUST NOTED A
FEW MONTHS BEFORE THE SO-CALLED
FEW MONTHS BEFORE THE
SO-CALLED "YEAR OF MERCY."
"YEAR OF MERCY." PUT
THIS IN THAT CONTEXT.
PUT THIS IN THAT CONTEXT.
WHAT IS HE TRYING TO DO?
WHAT IS HE TRYING TO DO? >>
POPE FRANCIS HAS BEEN THE
>> POPE FRANCIS HAS BEEN THE
PASTOR POPE FROM THE BEGINNING.
HE'S VERY FOCUSED ON WHAT ISSUES
PEOPLE AND FAMILIES ARE FACING
PEOPLE AND FAMILIES ARE
FACING AROUND THE WORLD.
AROUND THE WORLD. SO IT'S
IMPORTANT TO NOTE THIS
SO IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE THIS
LETTER, WHEN HE ANNOUNCED THIS
PROVISION FOR ABORTIONS, IT CAME
AFTER HE TALKED ABOUT PROVISIONS
FOR HOW DO WE BRING PEOPLE WHO
ARE SICK INTO THE CHURCH, HOW DO
ARE SICK INTO THE CHURCH, HOW
DO WE OPEN THE DOORS FOR THE
WE OPEN THE DOORS FOR THE
ELDERLY, FOR THE INCARCERATED.
SO IT'S REALLY IN THIS H LARGER
CONTEXT OF MAKING SURE THAT
PEOPLE WHO HAVE EXPERIENCED
DIVISION AND HAVE BEEN ALIENATED
FROM THE CHURCH FOR A WHOLE HOST
FROM THE CHURCH FOR A
WHOLE HOST OF REASONS.
OF REASONS. SO THAT
CAN CHANGE FOR THEM.
SO THAT CAN CHANGE FOR THEM.
>> Reporter: IT'S NOTABLE THIS
IS SPECIFICALLY ABOUT ABORTION.
I WAS STRUCK BY THE LANGUAGE.
HE SAID "I AM WELL AWARE OF THE
PRESSURE THAT HAS LED WOMEN TO
PRESSURE THAT HAS
LED WOMEN TO THIS."
THIS." HE WENT ON TO
SAY "I'VE MUTT SO
HE WENT ON TO SAY "I'VE MUTT SO
MANY WOMEN WHO BEAR IN THEIR
HEART THE SCAR OF THIS AGONIZING
AND PAINFUL DECISION.
AND PAINFUL DECISION. HOW
UNUSUAL IS IT FOR A POPE TO
HOW UNUSUAL IS IT FOR A POPE
TO BE WRITING LIKE THIS?
BE WRITING LIKE THIS? >> HID
TONE HAS MADE HIM CATCH
>> HID TONE HAS MADE HIM CATCH
HEADLINES EVER SINCE HE WAS
HEADLINES EVER SINCE
HE WAS NAMED THE POPE.
NAMED THE POPE. POPE JOHN
PAUL II MADE PROVISION
POPE JOHN PAUL II MADE PROVISION
FOR ALL PRIESTS TO GIVE THIS
ABSOLUTION ABOUT 15 YEARS AGO,
ABSOLUTION ABOUT 15 YEARS
AGO, BUT I THINK --
BUT I THINK -- >>
Reporter: FOR A SHORT
>> Reporter: FOR A SHORT PERIOD?
PERIOD? >> RIGHT, FOR
A SHORT PERIOD OF
>> RIGHT, FOR A SHORT
PERIOD OF TIME.
TIME. I THINK IT'S
CERTAINLY UNUSUAL
I THINK IT'S CERTAINLY UNUSUAL
IN TERMS OF THEIR REACTION THAT
THE POPE GARNERS, AND I THINK HE
KNOWS EXACTLY WHAT HE'S DOING
KNOWS EXACTLY WHAT
HE'S DOING HERE.
HERE. HE KNOWS BRINGING THIS UP
HE KNOWS BRINGING THIS UP
ESPECIALLY AT A KEY TIME, COMING
TO THE UNITED STATES, THAT'S
GOING TO CREATE WAVES AND ALLOW
HIM TO HAVE OTHER KINDS OF EVEN
HIM TO HAVE OTHER KINDS OF
EVEN BIGGER CONVERSATIONS.
BIGGER CONVERSATIONS. >>
Reporter: I NOTICE VATICAN
>> Reporter: I NOTICE VATICAN
OFFICIALS MADE A POINT TODAY OF
SAYING THIS ISN'T ABOUT CHANGING
CHURCH TEACHING AND DOCTRINE.
WHAT ARE THEY TRYING TO SAY?
>> I THINK THERE IS A LOT OF
PUSHBACK AGAINST THE MEDIA
THINKING OH, MY GOODNESS, THIS
POPE IS SUDDENLY NOT CATHOLIC.
WELL, THAT'S OBVIOUSLY NOT TRUE.
THEY'RE TRYING TO PUT THIS INTO
CONTEXT AND HELP PEOPLE WHO
MIGHT NOT UNDERSTAND YOU CAN
STILL BE EX COMMUNICATED OR YOU
ARE EX COMMUNICATED FOR THE SIN
ARE EX COMMUNICATED FOR
THE SIN OF ABORTION.
OF ABORTION. SO
THAT'S SOMETHINGH
SO THAT'S SOMETHINGH CHANGING.
CHANGING. BUT MAKING
SURE THAT PEOPLE ARE
BUT MAKING SURE THAT PEOPLE ARE
AWARE OF THAT AND KNOWING WHO
THE POPE ACTUALLY IS AND WHAT
HE'S NOT DOING IS SOMETIMES JUST
AS IMPORTANT AS WHAT HE ACTUALLY
AS IMPORTANT AS WHAT
HE ACTUALLY IS.
IS. >> Woodruff: ELIZABETH DIAS,
>> Woodruff: ELIZABETH DIAS,
WHAT DO WE EXPECT THE PRACTICAL
WHAT DO WE EXPECT THE
PRACTICAL EFFECT IS?
EFFECT IS? THIS IS
ONLY A ONE-YEAR PERIOD
THIS IS ONLY A ONE-YEAR PERIOD
STARTING IN DECEMBER TILL NEXT
STARTING IN DECEMBER
TILL NEXT NOVEMBER.
NOVEMBER. HOW MANY PARISHES --
HOW MANY PARISHES -- >>
IT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
>> IT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
IT'S INTERESTING TO SEE WHAT
WOMEN DECIDE TO COME FORWARD.
IT'S NOT JUST FOR WOMEN WHO HAD
AN ABORTION, IT'S A WOMAN WHO
PROCURED ABORTION, LEAVING ROOM
FOR HEADICLE PROVIDERS AND
ANYONE WHO'S RELATED.
ANYONE WHO'S RELATED. THE
POPE DIDN'T PUT THIS JUST ON
THE POPE DIDN'T PUT THIS JUST
ON WOMEN WHICH IS ALSO NOTABLE
WOMEN WHICH IS ALSO NOTABLE
ABOUT HOW HE SEES THE BROADER
ABOUT HOW HE SEES THE
BROADER CONTEXT.
CONTEXT. >> Woodruff:
HOW DO WE READ
>> Woodruff: HOW DO WE READ THIS
THREE WEEKS BEFORE THE POPE
THIS THREE WEEKS BEFORE THE POPE
COMES TO THE UNITED STATES?
>> IN COVERING THE POPE, HE'S
ALWAYS DOING SOMETHING SPECIFIC,
SO I KNOW THAT THIS IS IN
ADVANCE, YOU KNOW, THREE OR FOUR
MONTHS AHEAD OF THE ACTUAL YEAR
OF JUBILEE, SO HE IS SETTING THE
OF JUBILEE, SO HE IS SETTING
THE STAGE FOR THAT IN
STAGE FOR THAT IN CENTERED
ON THE BISHOPS, ON THE
CENTERED ON THE BISHOPS, ON
THE FAMILY, WHICH IS OCTOBER.
FAMILY, WHICH IS OCTOBER. BUT
YOU HAVE TO THINK HE KNOWS
BUT YOU HAVE TO THINK HE KNOWS
THAT ABORTION, SEXUAL ISSUES ARE
HOT-BUTTON TOPICS HERE, AND I
ALMOST WONDER IF TAKING THAT OFF
THE TABLE, HANDLING THAT BEFORE
HE COMES GIVES HIM MORE ROOM TO
TALK ABOUT OTHER THINGS THAT ARE
ON HIS MIND -- IMMIGRATION,
INCARCERATION, CLIMATE CHANGE.
>> Woodruff: ELIZABETH DIAS
WITH "TIME MAGAZINE," WE THANK
WITH "TIME MAGAZINE,"
WE THANK YOU.
YOU. >> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT IS
TREKKING UP A MELTING GLACIER IN
ALASKA TODAY ON THE SECOND OF A
ALASKA TODAY ON THE SECOND OF
A THREE-DAY TRIP TO CALL MORE
THREE-DAY TRIP TO CALL MORE
ATTENTION TO, AND FOR ACTION ON,
ATTENTION TO, AND FOR
ACTION ON, CLIMATE CHANGE.
CLIMATE CHANGE. BUT IT'S
A MOMENT THAT'S ALSO
BUT IT'S A MOMENT THAT'S ALSO
STIRRING ITS SHARE OF CRITICISM.
AS THE ARCTIC WARMS, THE ICE IS
AS THE ARCTIC WARMS, THE ICE
IS THAWING, OPENING THE WAY TO
THAWING, OPENING THE WAY TO
SHIPPING, TOURISM AND MINERAL
SHIPPING, TOURISM AND
MINERAL EXPLORATION.
EXPLORATION. THE
RUSSIANS HAVE RUSHED IN,
THE RUSSIANS HAVE RUSHED IN,
LEAVING THE U.S. TO PLAY CATCH-
LEAVING THE U.S.
TO PLAY CATCH- UP.
UP. SO TODAY'S WHITE
HOUSE CALL TO
SO TODAY'S WHITE HOUSE CALL TO
SPEED CONSTRUCTION OF MASSIVE
SPEED CONSTRUCTION OF
MASSIVE OCEAN ICEBREAKERS.
OCEAN ICEBREAKERS. RIGHT
NOW, THE U.S. H JUASST
RIGHT NOW, THE U.S. H JUASST
TWO, COMPARED TO RUSSIA'S 41.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT CAME AS
PRESIDENT OBAMA VISITED ALASKA
AND APPEALED FOR ACTION ON
AND APPEALED FOR ACTION
ON GLOBAL WARMING.
GLOBAL WARMING. >> CLIMATE
IS CHANGING FASTER
>> CLIMATE IS CHANGING FASTER
THAN OUR EFFORTS TO ADDRESS IT.
THAT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, MUST
THAT, LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN, MUST CHANGE.
CHANGE. WE'RE NOT
ACTING FAST ENOUGH.
WE'RE NOT ACTING FAST ENOUGH. >>
Ifill: MR. OBAMA SPOKE MONDAY
>> Ifill: MR. OBAMA SPOKE MONDAY
EVENING AT A CLIMATE SUMMIT IN
ANCHORAGE, WHERE HE ALSO WARNED
OF THE CONSEQUENCES OF INACTION.
>> IF WE STOP TRYING TO BUILD A
CLEAN-ENERGY ECONOMY AND REDUCE
CARBON POLLUTION, IF WE DO
NOTHING TO KEEP THE GLACIERS
FROM MELTING FASTER, AND OCEANS
FROM RISING FASTER, AND FORESTS
FROM BURNING FASTER, AND STORMS
FROM GROWING STRONGER, WE WILL
CONDEMN OUR CHILDREN TO A PLANET
BEYOND THEIR CAPACITY TO REPAIR:
BEYOND THEIR CAPACITY TO
REPAIR: SUBMERGED COUNTRIES.
SUBMERGED COUNTRIES.
ABANDONED CITIES.
ABANDONED CITIES. FIELDS
NO LONGER GROWING.
FIELDS NO LONGER GROWING. >>
Ifill: TO DRAW ATTENTION TO
>> Ifill: TO DRAW ATTENTION TO
THE EFFECTS OF WARMING AND HIS
PROPOSAL TO CUT GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSIONS BY 28%, THE PRESIDENT
SET OUT TODAY TO HIKE A MELTING
SET OUT TODAY TO HIKE
A MELTING GLACIER.
GLACIER. BUT HE'S
ALSO FOUND HIMSELF
BUT HE'S ALSO FOUND HIMSELF
UNDER FIRE FOR GIVING THE GREEN
LIGHT TO ROYAL DUTCH SHELL TO
DRILL FOR OIL OFF ALASKA'S
DRILL FOR OIL OFF
ALASKA'S NORTHWEST COAST.
NORTHWEST COAST. THAT'S
SPARKED PROTESTS BY
THAT'S SPARKED PROTESTS BY
ENVIRONMENTAL ADVOCATES IN THE
PACIFIC NORTHWEST WHO ARGUE OIL
EXPLORATION WILL DAMAGE THE
ARCTIC AND CONTRIBUTE TO CLIMATE
ARCTIC AND CONTRIBUTE
TO CLIMATE CHANGE.
CHANGE. FOR MORE ON
THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP
FOR MORE ON THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP
AND SOME OF THE ISSUES FOLLOWING
HIM TO THE ARCTIC, WE TURN TO
ROBERT BRYCE, HE'S A SENIOR
FELLOW AT THE MANHATTAN
INSTITUTE, AND HAS WRITTEN
WIDELY ON OIL AND GAS AND OTHER
WIDELY ON OIL AND GAS AND
OTHER ENERGY INDUSTRIES.
ENERGY INDUSTRIES. AND,
MICHAEL BRUNE, EXECUTIVE
AND, MICHAEL BRUNE, EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE SIERRA CLUB, AN
DIRECTOR OF THE SIERRA CLUB,
AN ENVIRONMENTAL GROUP.
ENVIRONMENTAL GROUP. MICHAEL
BRUNE, I WANT TO START
MICHAEL BRUNE, I WANT TO START
WITH YOU AND ASK YOU OVERALL
WHAT YOU SEE AS THE SIGNIFICANCE
OF THE PRESIDENT'S VISIT TO DARK
OF THE PRESIDENT'S
VISIT TO DARK TICK.
TICK. >> WELL, IT'S
VERY SIGNIFICANT.
>> WELL, IT'S VERY SIGNIFICANT.
THE PRESIDENT MADE CLIMATE
CHANGE A TOP PRIORITY OF HIS
ADMINISTRATION IN BOTH TERMS AND
GOING TO THE ARCTIC IS A GREAT
PLACE TO SHOWCASE THE THREATS
THAT CLIMATE CHANGE HAS BOTH ON
THAT CLIMATE CHANGE HAS BOTH
ON THE ECONOMY AS WELL AS THE
THE ECONOMY AS WELL AS THE
ENVIRONMENT BECAUSE THERE IS NO
PLACE THAT IS WARMING FASTER
THAN THE ARCTIC ANY WHERE ELSE
THAN THE ARCTIC ANY WHERE
ELSE AROUND THE WORLD.
AROUND THE WORLD. >> Ifill:
ROBERT BRYCE, WHAT'S
>> Ifill: ROBERT BRYCE,
WHAT'S YOUR TAKE ON THAT?
YOUR TAKE ON THAT? >>
WELL, I CAN'T ARGUE
>> WELL, I CAN'T ARGUE
TEMPERATURE ISSUES.
TEMPERATURE ISSUES. I
THINK WHAT'S INTERESTING,
I THINK WHAT'S INTERESTING,
THOUGH, IS THAT THE PRESIDENT
HAS GIVEN THE GREEN LIGHT TO
DRILL IN ALASKAN WATERS, AND I
THINK IT'S A PRAGMATIC MOVE.
WHILE HE IS TALKING ABOUT
CLIMATE CHANGE, THERE IS A
CONFLICT BETWEEN SOME OF THIS
CLIMATE CHANGE DISCUSSIONS AND
WHAT HE SAID SATURDAY IN HIS
RADIO ADDRESS, HE SAYS OUR
ECONOMY STILL HAS TO RELY ON OIL
AND GAS, AS LONG AS THAT'S THE
CASE I BELIEVE WE SHOULD RELY ON
DOMESTIC PRODUCTION THAN FOREIGN
IMPORES, AND I THINK THAT'S A
POSITIVE MOVE AND CLEARLY THE
OIL AND GAS SECTOR HAS BEEN ONE
OF THE TRUE BRIGHT SPOTS IN AN
OTHERWISE LACK LUSTER ECONOMY
DURING HIS PRESIDENCY.
DURING HIS PRESIDENCY. >>
Ifill: IS IT FAIR TO THE
>> Ifill: IS IT FAIR TO THE
PRESIDENT AND THE WHITE HOUSE TO
JUDGE HIS ENVIRONMENTAL RECORD
BY THIS DECISION ON DRILLING OR
IS THAT ACTUALLY A DARK SPOT ON
A RECORD IN WHICH HE'S REDUCING
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
AND TAKING OTHER ACTIONS?
TAKING OTHER ACTIONS? >> I
THINK IT'S FAIR TO SAY THAT
>> I THINK IT'S FAIR TO SAY THAT
THE PRESIDENT HAS DONE A LOT ON
CLIMATE, AND I WANT ALSO FAIR TO
CLIMATE, AND I WANT ALSO FAIR
TO SAY HIS RECORD IS FAR FROM
SAY HIS RECORD IS
FAR FROM PERFECT.
PERFECT. ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT THE
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS DONE HAS BEEN ABLE
PRESIDENT HAS DONE HAS BEEN
ABLE TO HELP US CURB OUR OIL
TO HELP US CURB OUR OIL
CONSUMPTION BY MAKING OUR CARS
AND TRUCKS AND ALL VEHICLES MORE
AND TRUCKS AND ALL VEHICLES
MORE FUEL EFFICIENT.
FUEL EFFICIENT. HE'S ALSO
BEGUN TO LEAD US AWAY
HE'S ALSO BEGUN TO LEAD US AWAY
FROM COAL AND THE PRODUCTION OF
LEX TRIESTY AND NATURAL GAS AND
TO SHIFT MORE TOWARDS CLEAN,
TO SHIFT MORE TOWARDS
CLEAN, RENEWABLE ENERGY.
RENEWABLE ENERGY. BUT
DRILLING IN THE ARCTIC IS
BUT DRILLING IN THE ARCTIC IS
JUST THE WRONG WAY TO GO, AND IT
THREATENS TO UNDERMINE A LOT OF
THE PROGRESS THAT THE PRESIDENT
THE PROGRESS THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS MADE.
HAS MADE. >> Ifill:
LET ME ASK ROBERT
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK ROBERT
BRYCE ABOUT THAT BECAUSE YOU SEE
BRYCE ABOUT THAT BECAUSE YOU
SEE IT AS AN UNALLOYED GOOD.
IT AS AN UNALLOYED GOOD. WE
DID A STORY NOT TOO LONG AGO
WE DID A STORY NOT TOO LONG AGO
ON THIS PROGRAM ABOUT THE OIL
GLUT, THE INCREASE IN SHALE
GLUT, THE INCREASE
IN SHALE PRODUCTION.
PRODUCTION. WHY IS THERE
A NEED FOR OFFSHORE
WHY IS THERE A NEED FOR OFFSHORE
OIL DRILLING IN ALASKA?
OIL DRILLING IN ALASKA? >>
I'LL MAKE A QUICK POINT AND
>> I'LL MAKE A QUICK POINT AND
ONE IS ALASKAN ENERGY HAS BEEN A
STRATEGIC ASSET TO THE U.S. FOR
STRATEGIC ASSET TO THE
U.S. FOR A CENTURY.
A CENTURY. THIS IDEA
OF ARCTIC DRILLING IS
THIS IDEA OF ARCTIC
DRILLING IS HARDLY NEW.
HARDLY NEW. THE ARCTIC
NATIONAL WILDLIFE
THE ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE
REFUGE HAS BEEN A FLASHPOINT FOR
REFUGE HAS BEEN A FLASHPOINT
FOR DECADES BUT WE HAVE BEEN
DECADES BUT WE HAVE BEEN
DRILLING IN ALASKA FOR DECADES
FOR THE MOST PART VERY SAFELY.
BUT AS FAR AS THE BROADER GAME
THE PRESIDENT IS LOOK TOWARD AS
WELL IS THE ENORMOUS AMOUNTS OF
RECOVERABLE ENERGY RESOURCES IN
THE ARCTIC, THE DEPARTMENT OF
THE ARCTIC, THE DEPARTMENT
OF ENERGY ESTIMATES THEM AT
ENERGY ESTIMATES THEM AT
SOMETHING ON THE ORDER OF
400 BILLION BARRELS OF OIL
EQUIVALENT IN NATURAL GAS AND
EQUIVALENT IN NATURAL
GAS AND OIL.
OIL. THAT'S FOUR
TIMES THE PROVED OIL
THAT'S FOUR TIMES THE PROVED
OIL RESERVES OF KUWAIT.
RESERVES OF KUWAIT. SO FOR
THE U.S. TO JUST FORGO
SO FOR THE U.S. TO JUST FORGO
THE ARCTIC RESOURCE AT THIS
TIME, I THINK IT WOULD BE A BIG
TIME, I THINK IT WOULD
BE A BIG MISTAKE.
MISTAKE. >> Ifill:
WE'LL LET MICHAEL
>> Ifill: WE'LL LET MICHAEL
BRUNE RESPOND TO THAT.
BRUNE RESPOND TO THAT. >>
SO DRILLING IN THE ARCTIC
>> SO DRILLING IN THE ARCTIC
MIGHT HAVE BEEN A GOOD IDEA IN
MIGHT HAVE BEEN A GOOD IDEA
IN 1923, BUT IT'S 2015.
1923, BUT IT'S 2015. THE
WORLD HAS CHANGED, AND WE
THE WORLD HAS CHANGED, AND
WE SHOULD CHANGE WITH IT.
SHOULD CHANGE WITH IT.
SCRAMBLING WITH RUSSIA TO RACE
TO SEE WHO CAN DRILL IN THE
ARCTIC FIRST IS LIKE RACING TO
SEE WHO CAN LIGHT THE FUSE ON A
SEE WHO CAN LIGHT THE
FUSE ON A TIME BOMB.
TIME BOMB. YOU KNOW,
SUPREMACY IN THE
YOU KNOW, SUPREMACY IN THE
ARCTIC SHOULDN'T BE DEFINED BY
WHO GETS TO DESTROY IT FIRST.
WE HAVE AN ABILITY RIGHT NOW TO
WE HAVE AN ABILITY RIGHT NOW
TO REBUILD OUR ECONOMY IN THE
REBUILD OUR ECONOMY IN THE
21st CENTURY AND DO IT IN A
21st CENTURY AND DO IT IN A WAY
THAT DOESN'T POISON OUR AIR,
WAY THAT DOESN'T POISON OUR
AIR, DOESN'T POISON OUR WATER,
DOESN'T POISON OUR WATER,
DOESN'T PUT OUR CLIMATE AT RISK
AND THAT IS BY INVESTING IN
CLEAN ENERGY, WHICH I WILL SAY
TO ROBERT IS GROWING AT A MUCH
FASTER RATE THAN THE REST OF THE
FASTER RATE THAN THE REST OF
THE ECONOMICS PARTICULARLY
ECONOMICS PARTICULARLY
AND GAS INDUSTRY.
AND GAS INDUSTRY. >>
Ifill: I WANT TO ASK YOU
>> Ifill: I WANT TO ASK YOU
BOTH, IS THERE A REASON WHY
THOSE TWO THINGS CAN'T
CO-EXIST -- THAT IS, INCREASED
DRILLING AND INCREASED CLEAN
ENERGY AND REDUCING EMISSIONS
AND REDUCING DPEDDENS ON COAL,
WHY CAN'T THAT ALL WORK TOGETHER
WHY CAN'T THAT ALL WORK
TOGETHER FOR GOOD?
FOR GOOD? I'LL START WITH YOU.
I'LL START WITH YOU. >>
WELL, I'LL MAKE TWO POINTS.
>> WELL, I'LL MAKE TWO POINTS.
ONE IS THAT NATURAL GAS HAS BEEN
A CRITICAL PART IN THE U.S.
REDUCING CO2 EMISSIONS.
REDUCING CO2 EMISSIONS. THE
NATURAL GAS DISPLACING COAL
THE NATURAL GAS DISPLACING COAL
IN THE DOMESTIC GENERATION
SECTOR HAS BEEN A KEY FACT IN
THE FACT THE U.S. HAS REDUCED
THE FACT THE U.S. HAS
REDUCED CO2 EMISSIONS BY
CO2 EMISSIONS BY 500
MILLION TONS IN THE LAST
500 MILLION TONS IN THE LAST
DECADE ALONE, MORE THAN ANY
OTHER COUNTRY IN THE WORLD
OTHER COUNTRY IN THE
WORLD INCLUDING GERMANY.
INCLUDING GERMANY. IF
WE'RE SERIOUS ABOUT CLEAN
IF WE'RE SERIOUS ABOUT CLEAN
ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE, WE
SHOULD BE SERIOUS ABOUT NUCLEAR
SHOULD BE SERIOUS
ABOUT NUCLEAR ENERGY.
ENERGY. THE SIERRA CLUB HAS BEEN
THE SIERRA CLUB HAS BEEN
ADAMANTLY OPPOSED EVEN THOUGH
NUCLEAR IS REDUCING CO2 EMISSION
MORSE THAN ANY OTHER FORM OF
MORSE THAN ANY OTHER
FORM OF ENERGY.
ENERGY. >> Ifill: MR. BRYCE.
>> Ifill: MR. BRYCE. THE
SIERRA CLUB'S POLICY, WE
THE SIERRA CLUB'S POLICY, WE
LOOK AT ALL ENERGY SOURCES WITH
A FEW DIFFERENT CRITERIA, WHAT'S
THE CHEAPEST, CLEANERS AND LINE.
WE KNOW NUCLEAR POWER RANKS DEAD
LAST IN ALL THOSE CATEGORIES.
WHAT WE ALSO KNOW IS CLEAN
ENERGY IS DROPPING IN COST AS IT
ENERGY IS DROPPING IN COST AS
IT INCREASES IN INSTALLATIONS.
INCREASES IN INSTALLATIONS. THE
MORE CLEAN ENERGY THAT GETS
THE MORE CLEAN ENERGY THAT GETS
INSTALLED, THE LOWER THE COSTS
GET, WHEREAS FOSSIL FUELS ARE
BECOMING MORE AND MORE EXPENSIVE
WITH THE CURRENT EXCEPTION OF
WITH THE CURRENT EXCEPTION
OF OIL RIGHT NOW.
OIL RIGHT NOW. WHEAT
ARE SEEING ACROSS THE
WHEAT ARE SEEING ACROSS
THE UNITED STATES IS THAT
UNITED STATES IS THAT
INCREASINGLY COMMUNITIES ARE
MOVING PAST COAL, BEYOND NATURAL
GAS AND, IN SOME CASES, BEYOND
NUCLEAR POWER, INVESTING IN
ENERGY EFFICIENTY, INVESTING IN
ENERGY EFFICIENTY, INVESTING
IN SOLAR AND WIND.
SOLAR AND WIND. THEY ARE
CUTTING COSTS, THEY ARE
THEY ARE CUTTING COSTS, THEY ARE
SAVING RATE PAYERS MONEY AND
HELPING TO STABILIZE THE
CLAIMANT AND REDUCE AIR AROUND
CLAIMANT AND REDUCE AIR
AROUND WATER POLLUTION.
WATER POLLUTION. WHAT IS
NOT TO LIKE ABOUT THAT?
WHAT IS NOT TO LIKE ABOUT THAT?
WE CAN BUILD AN ECONOMY ON CLEAN
WE CAN BUILD AN ECONOMY
ON CLEAN ENERGY.
ENERGY. WE SHOULD
NOT BE INVESTING IN
WE SHOULD NOT BE INVESTING IN
DIRTY OIL PARTICULARLY FROM THE
DIRTY OIL PARTICULARLY
FROM THE ARCTIC.
ARCTIC. >> Ifill:
DO I SEE AGREEMENT
>> Ifill: DO I SEE AGREEMENT
COMING FROM THE OTHER SIDE THERE
COMING FROM THE OTHER
SIDE THERE IN.
IN. >> WELL, LOOK, THERE IS NO
>> WELL, LOOK, THERE IS NO
QUESTION I'M ADAMANTLY FAVOR IN
QUESTION I'M ADAMANTLY
FAVOR IN NATURAL GAS.
NATURAL GAS. IT'S BEEN
A KEY FACTOR IN THE
IT'S BEEN A KEY FACTOR IN THE
U.S. REDUCING CO2 EMISSIONS.
U.S. REDUCING CO2 EMISSIONS. BUT
THE HARD REALITY IS WHAT THE
BUT THE HARD REALITY IS WHAT THE
PRESIDENT SAID, WE NEED OIL AND
PRESIDENT SAID, WE
NEED OIL AND GAS.
GAS. GLOBALLY, THERE
ARE 1 BILLION
GLOBALLY, THERE ARE 1 BILLION
AUTOMOBILES, WE HAVE ROUGHLY
400,000 AIRPLANES, TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF BOATS, ALL RUN ON
THOUSANDS OF BOATS,
ALL RUN ON OIL.
OIL. THE IDEA WE'LL
QUIT USING OIL IS
THE IDEA WE'LL QUIT USING
OIL IS SIMPLY NOT TRUE.
SIMPLY NOT TRUE. THE
SIERRA CLUB HAS BEEN
THE SIERRA CLUB HAS BEEN
SPINNING THE IDEA WE CAN RUN THE
WORLD ON RENEWABLES, IT HASN'T
WORLD ON RENEWABLES, IT
HASN'T AND WON'T BE TRUE.
AND WON'T BE TRUE.
WE NEED OIL AND GAS.
WE NEED OIL AND GAS. >>
Ifill: I DON'T THINK THAT'S
>> Ifill: I DON'T THINK THAT'S
INITIALLY WHAT THE PRESIDENT IS
INITIALLY WHAT THE PRESIDENT
IS SAYING WHICH IS WHAT WE ARE
SAYING WHICH IS WHAT WE
ARE TALKING ABOUT TODAY.
TALKING ABOUT TODAY. WE'LL
LEAVE IT THERE NOW,
WE'LL LEAVE IT THERE NOW,
MICHAEL BRUNE OF THE SIERRA CLUB
MICHAEL BRUNE OF THE SIERRA
CLUB AND ROBERT BRYCE OF THE
AND ROBERT BRYCE OF THE
MANHATTAN INSTITUTE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: STAY WITH US,
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR:
EFFORTS TO STOP YOUNG TUNISIANS
FROM JOINING TERRORISTS AT HOME
AND IN THE WIDER MIDDLE EAST.
CONFRONTING ECONOMIC CHALLENGES
THAT HEIGHTEN RACIAL DIVIDES IN
THAT HEIGHTEN RACIAL
DIVIDES IN THE U.S.
THE U.S. AND, A TALE
OF YOUTH, MORALITY
AND, A TALE OF YOUTH,
MORALITY AND MURDER.
AND MURDER. JONATHAN
FRANZEN ON HIS NEW
JONATHAN FRANZEN ON HIS
NEW NOVEL, "PURITY."
NOVEL, "PURITY." PRESIDENT
OBAMA IS ONE SENATE
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS ONE SENATE
VOTE AWAY FROM CLINCHING THE
VOTE AWAY FROM CLINCHING
THE IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL.
IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL. OPPONENTS
NEED 67 VOTES TO BLOCK
OPPONENTS NEED 67 VOTES TO BLOCK
THE NUCLEAR AGREEMENT-- THAT'S
ENOUGH VOTES TO OVERRIDE AN
EXPECTED PRESIDENTIAL VETO.
TO WIN OUT, THE PRESIDENT,
THEREFORE NEEDS 34 VOTES.
TODAY HIS TOTAL REACHED 33,
THANKS TO THE SUPPORT OF TWO
SENATE DEMOCRATS, CHRIS COONS OF
SENATE DEMOCRATS, CHRIS COONS
OF DELAWARE AND BOB CASEY OF
DELAWARE AND BOB CASEY
OF PENNSYLVANIA.
PENNSYLVANIA. THE
CONTROVERSIAL ACCORD AIMS TO
THE CONTROVERSIAL ACCORD AIMS TO
RESTRICT IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM
IN EXCHANGE FOR THE LIFTING OF
IN EXCHANGE FOR THE LIFTING
OF ECONOMIC SANCTIONS.
ECONOMIC SANCTIONS. SENATOR
CASEY JOINS US NOW FROM
SENATOR CASEY JOINS US
NOW FROM CAPITOL HILL.
CAPITOL HILL. SENATOR
CASEY, THANK YOU FOR
SENATOR CASEY, THANK
YOU FOR BEING HERE.
BEING HERE. THIS DEAL
HAS BEEN THE SUBJECT
THIS DEAL HAS BEEN THE SUBJECT
OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS WORTH OF
NEGATIVE ADVERTISING, A LOBBYING
NEGATIVE ADVERTISING,
A LOBBYING CAMPAIGN.
CAMPAIGN. YOU'VE SPENT
A LOT OF MONTHS
YOU'VE SPENT A LOT OF
MONTHS LOOKING AT IT.
LOOKING AT IT. WHY THE
DECISION TO SUPPORT IT?
WHY THE DECISION TO SUPPORT IT?
>> WELL, JUDY, FUNDAMENTALLY,
THE DECISION WAS BECAUSE YOU
HAVE TO DECIDE UP OR DOWN ON
THIS AGREEMENT AS IT RELATES TO
THE BASIC QUESTION OF HOW DO WE
THE BASIC QUESTION OF HOW DO
WE STOP IRAN FROM DEVELOPING A
STOP IRAN FROM DEVELOPING
A NUCLEAR WEAPON.
NUCLEAR WEAPON. SHORT
TERM AND LONG TERM.
SHORT TERM AND LONG TERM. SHORT
TERM BECAUSE THEY ARE JUST
SHORT TERM BECAUSE THEY ARE
JUST TWO TO THREE MONTHS FROM
TWO TO THREE MONTHS FROM
SO-CALLED BREAKOUT, HAVING
ENOUGH FISSILE MATERIAL FOR A
ENOUGH FISSILE
MATERIAL FOR A BOMB.
BOMB. SO THAT WEIGHED
ON ME HEAVILY.
SO THAT WEIGHED ON ME HEAVILY.
WHAT'S THE BEST WAY TO DO THAT?
YOUETTYOU EITHER HAVE TO VOTE FR
YOUETTYOU EITHER HAVE
TO VOTE FR AGAINST IT.
AGAINST IT. I THINK
VOTING FOR IT IS IN
I THINK VOTING FOR IT IS IN
FURTHERANCE OF THE GOAL OF
PREVENTING THEM FROM GETTING A
PREVENTING THEM FROM
GETTING A NUCLEAR WEAPON.
NUCLEAR WEAPON. THERE ARE
OTHER REASONS AS WELL,
THERE ARE OTHER REASONS AS WELL,
SOME INVOLVING CONSTRAINTS PUT
ON THE IRAN NUCLEAR PROGRAM FOR
ON THE IRAN NUCLEAR PROGRAM
FOR THE LONG-TERM.
THE LONG-TERM. PRINCIPALLY
YOU GET TO THE BASIC
PRINCIPALLY YOU GET TO THE BASIC
QUESTION ABOUT STOPPING THEM
FROM DEVELOPING A NUCLEAR
FROM DEVELOPING A
NUCLEAR WEAPON.
WEAPON. >> Woodruff:
FOR HOW LONG?
>> Woodruff: FOR HOW LONG?
ELL, CERTAINLY EVEN THE
OPPONENTS WOULD CONCEDE THAT
ABILITY TO CONSTRAIN THEIR
PROGRAM GOES FOR A DECADE IF NOT
LONGER AND, AFTER A DECADE, EVEN
AFTER THE CONSTRAINTS BEGIN TO
BE LIFTED, WHAT IRAN IS SUPPOSED
TO DO AT THAT POINT IS, IF THEY
CHOOSE TO, TO DEVELOP A CIVILIAN
NUCLEAR PROGRAM FOR NUCLEAR
NUCLEAR PROGRAM FOR
NUCLEAR POWER.
POWER. IF THEY DO
SOMETHING OTHER THAN
IF THEY DO SOMETHING OTHER THAN
THAT AND TAKE STEPS TO DEVELOP A
NUCLEAR WEAPON, THEN WE HAVE A
WHOLE RANGE OF OPTIONS, AND ONE
OF THE REASONS I SPENT SO MUCH
TIME ON THE DETERRENCE ISSUE IS
BECAUSE OF MY CONCERNS ABOUT THE
BECAUSE OF MY CONCERNS
ABOUT THE OUT YEARS.
OUT YEARS. >> Woodruff:
LET ME ASK YOU
>> Woodruff: LET ME ASK YOU
ABOUT ANOTHER ARGUMENT MADE LAST
ABOUT ANOTHER ARGUMENT
MADE LAST NIGHT.
NIGHT. GWEN INTERVIEWED
A FORMER ARMS
GWEN INTERVIEWED A FORMER
ARMS CONTROLS NEGOTIATE.
CONTROLS NEGOTIATE. HE SAID
FOR DECADES IF IRAN IS
HE SAID FOR DECADES IF IRAN IS
ALLOWED TO BECOME A THRESHOLD
NUCLEAR WEAPONS STATE THAT WILL
STIMULATE WHAT HE CALLED A
CASCADE OF NUCLEAR PROLIFERATION
IN THE MIDDLE EAST, THAT AS SOON
AS IRAN HAS THIS CAPABILITY THAT
OTHER STATES ARE GOING TO WANT
TO JOIN AND HAVE THE EXACT SAME
TO JOIN AND HAVE THE
EXACT SAME ABILITY.
ABILITY. >> WE'RE AT
A POINT WHERE THEY
>> WE'RE AT A POINT WHERE THEY
ARE A THRESHOLD NUCLEAR STATE
ARE A THRESHOLD
NUCLEAR STATE NOW.
NOW. THEY ARE TWO
TO THREE MONTHS
THEY ARE TWO TO THREE MONTHS
FROM HAVING ENOUGH FISSILE
MATERIAL TO GET A BOMB.
MATERIAL TO GET A BOMB. STEP
TWO IS GETTING THE DEVICE
STEP TWO IS GETTING THE DEVICE
MADE, THEN WEAPONIZING IT.
MADE, THEN WEAPONIZING IT. SO
THEY ARE FAR TOO CLOSE RIGHT
SO THEY ARE FAR TOO CLOSE RIGHT
NOW, AND WHAT WE DON'T WANT TO
HAVE IS THE WORST OF ALL WORLDS
WHERE WE TALK AWAY FROM -- WALK
AWAY FROM THIS SUBSTANTIAL
EFFORT THAT WE'VE LED FOR YEARS,
EFFORT THAT WE'VE LED FOR
YEARS, TELLING EVERYONE IN OUR
TELLING EVERYONE IN OUR
COALITION TO MAKE SACRIFICES AND
IMPOSE SANCTIONS AND LIVE BY
THOSE SANCTIONS AND PUT PRESSURE
ON IRAN, THEN WE TAL WALK AWAY F
THE DEAL WERE NOT VOTED IN FAVOR
THE DEAL WERE NOT
VOTED IN FAVOR OF.
OF. WE WALK AWAY,
THEN THE INTERIM
WE WALK AWAY, THEN THE INTERIM
AGREEMENT FALLS, SO THERE IS
VIRTUALLY NO LIGHTS ON THEIR
PROGRAM, NO SURVEILLANCE, AND
ALL THE WHILE GOING FORWARD
THEY'D GET SANCTIONS RELIEF FROM
OTHER COUNTRIES, IN A SENSE.
SO THE WORST OF ALL WORLDS IS
THEY HAVE A STRONGER ECONOMY
BECAUSE OF SOME OF THE SANCTIONS
RELIEF PLUS THEY'RE VERY CLOSE
TO DEVELOPING A NUCLEAR WEAPON
OR EVEN HAVE ONE, AND THEN YOU
HAVE THE WORST OF ALL WORLDS.
THAT'S THE FASTEST WAY TO
GREATER DANGER AND I THINK
PROLIFERATION IN THE REGION.
>> Woodruff: HOW HARD WAS IT
>> Woodruff: HOW HARD WAS IT TO
GO AGAINST, AGAIN, THE FIERCE
TO GO AGAINST, AGAIN, THE FIERCE
ISRAELI ARGUMENT, THE ARGUMENT
BY ISRAEL'S PRIME MINISTER
NETANYAHU THAT THIS THREATENS
ISRAEL'S EXISTENCE?
ISRAEL'S EXISTENCE? >> WELL,
FROM THE VERY BEGINNING
>> WELL, FROM THE VERY BEGINNING
AND THROUGHOUT MY EIGHT AND A
HALF YEARS IN THE SENATE I'VE
WORKED VERY HARD TO MAKE SURE WE
TAKE STEPS TO SECURE ISRAEL AND,
ULTIMATELY, THE BACKSTOP OR THE
FORTIFICATION FOR THIS AGREEMENT
AND FOR ISRAEL'S SECURITY IS
AND FOR ISRAEL'S SECURITY
IS THEIR OWN CAPABILITY.
THEIR OWN CAPABILITY. WE'RE
THE ONLY COUNTRY IN THE
WE'RE THE ONLY COUNTRY IN THE
WORLD THAT HAS THE MILITARY
CAPABILITY TO TAKE OUT IRAN'S
PROGRAM TODAY, TOMORROW AND INTO
PROGRAM TODAY, TOMORROW
AND INTO THE FUTURE.
THE FUTURE. THAT'S THE
ULTIMATE BACKSTOP FOR
THAT'S THE ULTIMATE
BACKSTOP FOR ISRAEL.
ISRAEL. I THINK
THERE IS A PERFECT
I THINK THERE IS A PERFECT
ALIGNMENT BETWEEN WHAT WE SHOULD
DO FOR OUR OWN SECURITY AND
ENSURING THE SECURITY OF ISRAEL.
ENSURING THE SECURITY OF
ISRAEL. I DON'T THINK THEY ARE
I DON'T THINK THEY ARE
DISCORDANT IN ANY WAY.
DISCORDANT IN ANY WAY. I
BELIEVE THEIR AGREEMENT
I BELIEVE THEIR AGREEMENT
ENHANCES OUR NATIONAL SECURITY
AND ALSO ENHANCES THE SECURITY
OF ISRAEL AND THE REGION.
OF ISRAEL AND THE REGION. >>
Woodruff: I FINALLY WANT TO
>> Woodruff: I FINALLY WANT
TO ASK YOU ABOUT -- AND VERY
ASK YOU ABOUT -- AND VERY
QUICKLY -- AS WE REPORTED
EARLIER, DEMOCRATS SUPPORTING
THE PRESIDENT ARE JUST ONE VOTE
AWAY FROM HAVING ENOUGH VOTES TO
BLOCK AN ATTEMPT TO OVERRIDE A
PRESIDENTIAL VETO, SHOULD IT
PRESIDENTIAL VETO,
SHOULD IT COME TO THAT.
COME TO THAT. ANY DOUBT
IN YOUR MIND NOW THAT
ANY DOUBT IN YOUR MIND NOW THAT
SUPPORTERS ARE GOING TO GET THAT
SUPPORTERS ARE GOING TO
GET THAT ADDITIONAL VOTE?
ADDITIONAL VOTE? >> I WOULD
BE VERY SURPRISED IF
>> I WOULD BE VERY SURPRISED IF
THAT VOTE WAS NOT FORTHCOMING.
I DON'T KNOW EXACT NUMBERS OR
HOW REMAINING SENATORS WILL VOTE
BUT I THINK IF I HAD TO MAKE AN
EDUCATED GUESS, I WOULD SAY WE
HAVE ENOUGH VOTES TO SUSTAIN A
HAVE ENOUGH VOTES
TO SUSTAIN A VETO.
VETO. >> Woodruff:
SENATOR BOB CASEY
>> Woodruff: SENATOR BOB CASEY
OF PENNSYLVANIA, WE THANK YOU
OF PENNSYLVANIA, WE
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
VERY MUCH. >> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Ifill: WE TURN NOW TO
TUNISIA, THE BIRTHPLACE OF THE
TUNISIA, THE BIRTHPLACE
OF THE ARAB SPRING.
ARAB SPRING. THE COUNTRY
EARNED HIGH MARKS
THE COUNTRY EARNED HIGH MARKS
FOR ITS CONSTITUTIONAL AND
POLITICAL REFORMS FOLLOWING THE
OVERTHROW OF ITS DICTATOR IN
OVERTHROW OF ITS
DICTATOR IN 2001.
2001. BUT IT ALSO
HAS A MUCH LESS
BUT IT ALSO HAS A MUCH LESS
FLATTERING DISTINCTION, AS THE
LEADING EXPORTER OF EXTREMIST
FIGHTERS TO IRAQ AND SYRIA, AND
MORE RECENTLY, AS THE SITE OF
HIGH PROFILE TERROR ATTACKS.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
YASMEEN QURESHI TRAVELED THERE
TO FIND OUT WHAT'S DRIVING THE
TO FIND OUT WHAT'S DRIVING
THE UPTICK IN VIOLENCE.
UPTICK IN VIOLENCE. A
WARNING-- SOME OF THE IMAGES
A WARNING-- SOME OF THE
IMAGES MAY BE DISTURBING.
MAY BE DISTURBING.
>> Reporter: POPULAR TUNISIAN
RAPPER DJ COSTA WROTE THIS SONG
WHEN THE ARAB SPRING BEGAN IN
WHEN THE ARAB SPRING
BEGAN IN 2011.
2011. >> Reporter:
HE JOINED THOUSANDS
>> Reporter: HE JOINED THOUSANDS
OF YOUNG TUNISIANS IN CALLING
FOR MORE FREEDOM AND ECONOMIC
FOR MORE FREEDOM AND
ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY.
OPPORTUNITY. FOUR YEARS
LATER, WHAT DJ COSTA
FOUR YEARS LATER, WHAT DJ COSTA
DIDN'T ANTICIPATE IS THAT MANYOM
IN DEMANDING DEMOCRACY ARE NOW
FLEEING THE COUNTRY TO JOIN
FLEEING THE COUNTRY TO
JOIN ISLAMIC STATE.
ISLAMIC STATE.
WHAT WAS HIS NAME?
WHAT WAS HIS NAME? >> YOUSSEF.
>> YOUSSEF. >> Reporter:
DJ COSTA'S BROTHER
>> Reporter: DJ COSTA'S BROTHER
IS ONE OF OVER 3,000 TUNISIANS
WHO HAVE LEFT TO FIGHT IN SYRIA.
WHO HAVE LEFT TO FIGHT IN
SYRIA. HOW WAS HE RECRUITED?
HOW WAS HE RECRUITED? >> (
translated): HE WAS
LONELY
>> (translated
): HE WAS LONELY
AND DEPRESSED AFTER TWO
OF HIS FRIENDS DIED.
FRIENDS DIED. DURING
RAMADAN HE SPENT A LOT
DURING RAMADAN HE SPENT A LOT
TIME AT THE MOSQUE PRAYING WITH
A GROUP OF PEOPLE, SOMETIMES 15
DAYS IN A ROW WITHOUT GOING OUT.
THEY BECAME LIKE FAMILY TO HIM.
HE WAS VULNERABLE AND IT WAS
EASY FOR THEM TO MANIPULATE HIM.
EASY FOR THEM TO MANIPULATE
HIM. >> Reporter: HIS YOUNGER
>> Reporter: HIS YOUNGER
BROTHER, YOUSSEF, TRAVELED TO
SYRIA TWICE, AND ON HIS SECOND
TIME JOINED ISLAMIC STATE.
HE WAS KILLED LAST NOVEMBER
HE WAS KILLED LAST
NOVEMBER WHILE FIGHTING.
WHILE FIGHTING. >> (
translated): YOU KNOW,
THE
>> (translated): YOU
KNOW, THE MAN WHO GOES TO SYRIA
IS NOT THE
MAN WHO GOES TO SYRIA
IS NOT THE PROBLEM.
PROBLEM. THE ONE WHO
GIVES HIM THE MEANS
THE ONE WHO GIVES HIM THE MEANS
TO GET THERE IS THE PROBLEM.
TO GET THERE IS THE PROBLEM. MY
BROTHER WAS A SOCCER PLAYER.
MY BROTHER WAS A SOCCER PLAYER.
HE LOVED CLUBBING AND PARTYING,
SO HE ALWAYS FELT GUILTY.
SO HE ALWAYS FELT GUILTY. HE
FELT THAT HE HAD TO REDEEM
HE FELT THAT HE HAD TO REDEEM
HIS SINS, SO HE TURNED TO
HIS SINS, SO HE
TURNED TO RELIGION.
RELIGION. >> Reporter:
AFTER LOSING HIS
>> Reporter: AFTER LOSING HIS
BROTHER, DJ COSTA MADE IT HIS
MISSION TO TRY AND PREVENT MORE
YOUNG MEN FROM JOINING ISLAMIC
STATE. HE WORKS WITH
MOHAMMED REJEB,
HE WORKS WITH MOHAMMED REJEB,
WHOSE BROTHER ALSO FOUGHT WITH
WHOSE BROTHER ALSO
FOUGHT WITH ISIS.
ISIS. HIS BROTHER
RETURNED ALIVE, BUT
HIS BROTHER RETURNED ALIVE, BUT
WAS PSYCHOLOGICALLY SCARRED AND
WAS PSYCHOLOGICALLY SCARRED
AND REFUSES TO DISCUSS H
REFUSES TO DISCUSS H PICTURE
AFTER PICTURE SHOWS
PICTURE AFTER PICTURE SHOWS
TUNISIANS AS YOUNG AS TEN YEARS
OLD WHO HAVE LEFT TO FIGHT IN
OLD WHO HAVE LEFT
TO FIGHT IN SYRIA.
SYRIA. >> (translated
): AS YOU CAN
>> (translated): AS YOU
CAN SEE, HE LOOKS LIKE ANY OTHER
SEE, HE LOOKS LIKE ANY
OTHER TEENAGER OF HIS AGE.
TEENAGER OF HIS AGE.
HE WAS A NORMAL GUY.
HE WAS A NORMAL GUY. CAN YOU
IMAGINE SUCH A TEENAGER?
CAN YOU IMAGINE SUCH A TEENAGER?
THEY MANIPULATED HIM AND
CONVINCED HIM THAT HE HAS TO
JOIN THE ISIS TO FIGHT FOR THEIR
JOIN THE ISIS TO FIGHT
FOR THEIR IDEOLOGY.
IDEOLOGY. >> Reporter:
VIDEOS LIKE THIS
>> Reporter: VIDEOS LIKE THIS
ONE ARE USED BY ISIS RECRUITERS
TO ATTRACT YOUNG MEN TO FIGHT.
ONCE THEY ARRIVE IN SYRIA IT'S
BELIEVED THEY GIVE THEM A DRUG
CALLED CAPTAGON, AN AMPHETAMINE
THAT GIVES FIGHTERS ENERGY AND
HELPS THEM COPE WITH PAIN.
THIS YEAR, TUNISIA'S GROWING
TERRORISM PROBLEM WASN'T ONLY
TERRORISM PROBLEM
WASN'T ONLY EXPORTED.
EXPORTED. ON MARCH 18,
2015, THREE GUNMEN
ON MARCH 18, 2015, THREE GUNMEN
STORMED THE ICONIC BARDO MUSEUM
IN TUNISIA, KILLING OVER 20
PEOPLE AND INJURING DOZENS MORE.
FOR-MOUNTHS LATER, A GUNMAN
WALKED ONTO A BEACH IN THE
POPULAR TOURIST AREA OF SOUSSE
POPULAR TOURIST AREA OF
SOUSSE AND OPENED FIRE.
AND OPENED FIRE. 39 PEOPLE
WERE KILLED, AND 36
39 PEOPLE WERE KILLED, AND
36 MORE INJURED, ALMOST ALL
MORE INJURED, ALMOST ALL
TOURISTS, MAKING IT TEST ATTACKS
TOURISTS, MAKING IT TEST
ATTACKS RECENT HISTORY.
RECENT HISTORY. MOST OF
THE GUNMEN WERE TUNISIAN
MOST OF THE GUNMEN WERE TUNISIAN
CITIZENS WHO ARE BELIEVED TO
HAVE TRAINED IN NEIGHBORING
LIBYA, A COUNTRY WITH WHICH
TUNISIA SHARES A 300 MILE
TUNISIA SHARES A
300 MILE BORDER.
BORDER. IN LIBYA,
LAWLESSNESS AND CIVIL
IN LIBYA, LAWLESSNESS AND CIVIL
WAR HAVE ALLOWED ISLAMIC STATE
TO GAIN TERRITORY, AND CREATED A
TO GAIN TERRITORY, AND CREATED
A HOTBED FOR RECRUITMENT AND
HOTBED FOR RECRUITMENT
AND TRAINING.
TRAINING. YOUSSEF
CHERIF IS A TUNISIAN
YOUSSEF CHERIF IS A TUNISIAN
POLITICAL ANALYST WHO HAS
STUDIED THE ARAB SPRING AND
TUNISIA'S TERRORISM PROBLEM.
WHAT DO YOU THINK DRIVES A YOUNG
TUNISIAN BOY TO GO TO LIBYA AND
TRAIN WITH AN ISLAMIC STATE
TRAIN WITH AN ISLAMIC
STATE ORGANIZATION?
ORGANIZATION? >> WE HAVE
PEOPLE WHO ARE FED UP
>> WE HAVE PEOPLE WHO ARE FED UP
WITH THEIR LIVES IN TUNISIA, FED
UP WITH THE ECONOMIC SITUATION,
FED UP WITH THE POLITICAL
FED UP WITH THE
POLITICAL SITUATION.
SITUATION. THE PROPAGANDA
OF ISIS PORTRAYS,
THE PROPAGANDA OF ISIS PORTRAYS,
YOU KNOW, THE SELF-PROCLAIMED
STATE OF ISIS AS PARADISE ON
EARTH WHERE YOU GET JOBS, MONEY,
EARTH WHERE YOU GET
JOBS, MONEY, WIVES.
WIVES. SADLY, THIS IS NOW THE
SADLY, THIS IS NOW THE
REPRESENTATION OF THE FREEDOM
FIGHTING IN THE REGION.
FIGHTING IN THE REGION. 30
OR 40 YEARS AGO, IT WAS
30 OR 40 YEARS AGO, IT WAS
MARXIST GUERILLAS WITH AT LEAST
MORE PROGRESSIVE OPINIONS AND
MORE PROGRESSIVE
OPINIONS AND VIEWS.
VIEWS. BUT NOW THE
REPRESENTATIVE OF
BUT NOW THE REPRESENTATIVE
OF FREEDOM FIGHTING IS ISIS.
FREEDOM FIGHTING IS ISIS.
>> Reporter: TUNISIA IS A
COUNTRY OF JUST 11 MILLION
COUNTRY OF JUST 11
MILLION PEOPLE.
PEOPLE. YET ESTIMATES
SUGGEST THAT IT
YET ESTIMATES SUGGEST THAT IT
HAS SENT MORE ISLAMIC FIGHTERS
TO SYRIA THAN ANY OTHER COUNTRY.
>> MANY PEOPLE EXPECT TUNISIA TO
BE THIS SECULAR QUASI-EUROPEAN
COUNTRY THAT IS SUPPOSEDLY VERY
DIFFERENT FROM THE ARAB WORLD.
INDEED, TUNISIA IS DIFFERENT BUT
INDEED, TUNISIA IS DIFFERENT
BUT NOT THAT DIFFERENT.
NOT THAT DIFFERENT. TUNISIA
IS A MUSLIM-ARAB COUNTRY
TUNISIA IS A MUSLIM-ARAB COUNTRY
THAT WENT THROUGH DICTATORSHIP
THAT WENT THROUGH
DICTATORSHIP FOR DECADES.
FOR DECADES. THAT HAS
A LOT OF ANGER AMONG
THAT HAS A LOT OF ANGER AMONG
ITS POPULATION, ESPECIALLY AMONG
ITS POPULATION, ESPECIALLY
AMONG ITS YOUTH.
ITS YOUTH. THE SAME
YOUTH OF THE ARAB
THE SAME YOUTH OF
THE ARAB REGION.
REGION. THE SAME ONES
WHO DEMONSTRATED
THE SAME ONES WHO DEMONSTRATED
AND WHO CREATED THE ARAB SPRING
AND WHO NOW STILL WHO DO NOT SEE
AND WHO NOW STILL WHO DO NOT
SEE FRUITS OF THE REVOLUTION.
FRUITS OF THE REVOLUTION. >>
Reporter: THEY DON'T SEE THE
>> Reporter: THEY DON'T SEE THE
FRUITS OF THEIR STRUGGLE AND
MANY STILL CAN'T FIND ANY WORK.
YOUTH UNEMPLOYMENT IS A BIG
PROBLEM ACROSS THE MIDDLE-EAST,
AND THE RATE IN TUNISIA IS AS
AND THE RATE IN TUNISIA
IS AS HIGH AS 40%.
HIGH AS 40%. WE'VE COME TO THBU
WE'VE COME TO THBU TUNIS
TO SPEAK WITH SOME
TUNIS TO SPEAK WITH SOME
YOUNGSTERS ABOUT THE PROBLEMS
THEY FACE FINDING JOBS.
THEY FACE FINDING JOBS. EL
OMRAN IS A POOR NEIGHBORHOOD
EL OMRAN IS A POOR NEIGHBORHOOD
IN THE SUBURBS OF TUNIS.
IN THE SUBURBS OF TUNIS. MAYO
MAYO AREA PROTESTED
DURING THE ARAB
AREA PROTESTED DURING THE ARAB
SPRING, HOPING THAT DEMOCRACY
SPRING, HOPING THAT
DEMOCRACY WOULD BRING JOBS.
WOULD BRING JOBS. MOHAMED
MANSOUR IS ONE OF THEM.
MOHAMED MANSOUR IS ONE OF THEM.
FOUR YEARS LATER, HE AND MOST OF
FOUR YEARS LATER, HE AND MOST
OF FRIENDS REMAIN OUT OF WORK.
FRIENDS REMAIN OUT OF WORK.
WHAT WERE YOU HOPING WOULD
CHANGE AFTER THE REVOLUTION?
CHANGE AFTER THE REVOLUTION? >>
(translated): WE
THOUGHT
>> (translated): WE
THOUGHT THAT WE WOULD DEVELOP
THE
THAT WE WOULD DEVELOP THE
COUNTRY, THAT WE WOULD BENEFIT
FROM THE REVOLUTION, AND THAT
THE GOVERNMENT WOULD AT LEAST
PROVIDE JOBS FOR PEOPLE.
PROVIDE JOBS FOR PEOPLE. BUT
AS YOU CAN SEE, HALF OF THE
BUT AS YOU CAN SEE, HALF OF
THE PEOPLE ARE UNEMPLOYED.
PEOPLE ARE UNEMPLOYED. BUT
WE DIDN'T GET ANYTHING.
BUT WE DIDN'T GET ANYTHING.
>> Reporter: DO YOU HAVE ANY
FRIENDS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD WHO
HAVE GONE TO FIGHT IN SYRIA?
HAVE GONE TO FIGHT IN SYRIA? >>
(translated): YES, I
HAVE A
>> (translated): YES, I
HAVE A FRIEND WHO WENT TO SYRIA.
FRIEND WHO WENT TO SYRIA. WE
WERE IN THE SAME HIGH SCHOOL.
WE WERE IN THE SAME HIGH SCHOOL.
EACH ONE OF US CHOOSES HIS PATH.
IF HE IS RIGHT, THEN GOD BLESS
IF HE IS RIGHT,
THEN GOD BLESS HIM.
HIM. IF NOT, I
HOPE HE WOULD COME
IF NOT, I HOPE HE WOULD COME
BACK TO TUNISIA BECAUSE HIS
BACK TO TUNISIA BECAUSE
HIS PARENTS ARE IN PAIN.
PARENTS ARE IN PAIN.
WE ARE ALL MUSLIMS.
WE ARE ALL MUSLIMS. WE
BOTH LOVE ISLAM BUT MY
WE BOTH LOVE ISLAM BUT MY
UNDERSTANDING OF IT IS
UNDERSTANDING OF
IT IS DIFFERENT.
DIFFERENT. I DON'T
THINK THAT ISLAM MEANS
I DON'T THINK THAT ISLAM
MEANS DEATH AND VIOLENCE.
DEATH AND VIOLENCE. >>
Reporter: AS TUNISIANS
>> Reporter: AS TUNISIANS
GRAPPLE WITH LIFE FOUR YEARS
AFTER THE ARAB SPRING, THE
COUNTRY CLINGS TO A TENUOUS GRIP
COUNTRY CLINGS TO A TENUOUS
GRIP ON DEMOCRACY.
ON DEMOCRACY. AND IN
THE WAKE OF THE NEW
AND IN THE WAKE OF THE NEW
TERRORIST ATTACKS, THE
GOVERNMENT IS CRACKING DOWN IN
THE NAME OF SECURITY, CAUSING
SOME TUNISIANS TO WORRY THAT THE
DEMOCRACY THEY ONCE FOUGHT SO
HARD FOR COULD CRUMBLE LIKE
OTHERS ACROSS THE ARAB WORLD.
>> WE HAVE NOW PEOPLE WHO ARE
FIGHTING FREEDOM IN TUNISIA AND
WAGING WARS AGAINST THE LIBERTY
OPPRESSED THAT WE ARE HAVING
AGAINST DEMOCRATIZATION OF THE
COUNTRY IN THE NAME OF FIGHTING
ISIS AND FIGHTING TERRORISM.
AND THIS IS VERY DANGEROUS,
BECAUSE THIS IS WHAT WE HAD IN
THE BEGINNING OF THE ERA OF BEN
THE BEGINNING OF THE
ERA OF BEN ALI.
ALI. ONE OF THE WORST
ERAS WE HAD IN
ONE OF THE WORST ERAS WE HAD IN
TUNISIA IN TERMS OF FREEDOMS AND
TUNISIA IN TERMS OF
FREEDOMS AND HUMAN RIGHTS.
HUMAN RIGHTS. IN THE
NAME OF SECURITY,
IN THE NAME OF SECURITY,
WE CRUSH LIBERTY.
WE CRUSH LIBERTY. >>
Reporter: FOR DECADES,
>> Reporter: FOR DECADES,
TUNISIA'S PICTURESQUE COASTLINES
AND OLD WORLD CHARM HAVE
ATTRACTED MILLIONS OF TOURISTS
EACH YEAR, MANY OF THEM FROM
EACH YEAR, MANY OF
THEM FROM EUROPE.
EUROPE. BUT NOW THE
LOSS OF TOURISM
BUT NOW THE LOSS OF TOURISM
DOLLARS AND THE JOBS THAT GO
WITH THEM WILL CAUSE EVEN MORE
ECONOMIC HARDSHIP, AND THAT
COULD FRUSTRATE MANY MORE YOUNG
COULD FRUSTRATE MANY
MORE YOUNG TUNISIANS.
TUNISIANS. MEANWHILE,
DJ COSTA USES THE
MEANWHILE, DJ COSTA USES THE
ONLY TOOL HE HAS, HIS MUSIC, TO
COUNTER THE MESSAGES OF ISIS.
COUNTER THE MESSAGES OF ISIS. >>
(translated): WHAT WE
ARE
>> (translated): WHAT
WE ARE DOING IS DANGEROUS.
DOING IS DANGEROUS. I HAVE
ALREADY RECEIVED DEATH
I HAVE ALREADY RECEIVED DEATH
THREATS BUT THAT DOESN'T
FRIGHTEN ME BECAUSE WE ARE ON
THE RIGHT PATH, AND I BELIEVE WE
HAVE TO MAKE SACRIFICES FOR THE
HAVE TO MAKE SACRIFICES
FOR THE COMMON GOOD.
COMMON GOOD. >> Reporter:
HE HOPES IT WILL BE
>> Reporter: HE HOPES
IT WILL BE ENOUGH.
ENOUGH. FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, I AM
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I AM
YASMEEN QURESHI IN TUNIS.
>> Woodruff: TONIGHT WE LAUNCH
"RACE MATTERS," A YEAR-LONG
SERIES FOCUSED ON FINDING
SOLUTIONS TO SOME OF THE
COUNTRY'S MOST PRESSING RACIAL
COUNTRY'S MOST PRESSING
RACIAL ISSUES.
ISSUES. SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT CHARLAYNE
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT CHARLAYNE
HUNTER GAULT WILL BE OUR GUIDE.
SHE BEGINS TONIGHT WITH A
CONVERSATION WITH HARVARD
UNIVERSITY VISITING PROFESSOR
UNIVERSITY VISITING
PROFESSOR RAJ CHETTY.
RAJ CHETTY. A RECIPIENT
OF THE MACARTHUR
A RECIPIENT OF THE MACARTHUR
FOUNDATION GENIUS AWARD,
CHETTY'S RESEARCH FOCUSES ON
MOBILITY AND WAYS TO INCREASE
THE OUTCOMES FOR ALL CHILDREN
INCLUDING AFRICAN AMERICANS.
>> Reporter: PROFESSOR CHETTY,
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME. >>
Reporter: YOU'VE WRITTEN THAT
>> Reporter: YOU'VE WRITTEN THAT
WHERE CHILDREN GROW UP SHAPES
THEIR PROSPECTS AS ADULTS.
THEIR PROSPECTS AS
ADULTS. EXPLAIN THAT.
EXPLAIN THAT. >> SO, WE
FIND WHEN LOOKING AT
>> SO, WE FIND WHEN LOOKING AT
VERY LARGE DATA SETS, COVERING
THE AMERICAN POPULATION THAT
WHERE A CHILD GROWS UP IN
AMERICA, WHICH COUNTY THEY
HAPPEN TO GROW UP IN, HAS A
PROFOUND AFFECT ON THEIR CHANCES
OF MOVING UP IN THE INCOME
OF MOVING UP IN THE
INCOME DISTRIBUTION.
DISTRIBUTION. >> Reporter:
LIKE, WHAT CITIES?
>> Reporter: LIKE, WHAT CITIES?
>> ATLANTA'S A GOOD EXAMPLE OF A
>> ATLANTA'S A GOOD EXAMPLE OF
A CITY THAT'S QUITE SPRAWLING,
CITY THAT'S QUITE SPRAWLING,
WHERE THERE'S A SHARP DIVISION
BETWEEN WHERE BLACKS AND WHITES
LIVE, BETWEEN WHERE LOW-INCOME
AND HIGH-INCOME FAMILIES LIVE.
AND LOTS OF CITIES IN AMERICA
AND LOTS OF CITIES IN
AMERICA LOOK LIKE THAT.
LOOK LIKE THAT. DETROIT
IS ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF A
DETROIT IS ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF
A CITY THAT LOOKS LIKE THAT.
CITY THAT LOOKS LIKE THAT.
AND THOSE CITIES, THEY'RE
VARIOUS REASONS YOU MIGHT INKTH
YOU KNOW, YOU'D GET LOWER
MOBILITY IN THOSE AREAS, LOWER
MOBILITY IN THOSE AREAS,
LOWER UPWARD MOBILITY.
UPWARD MOBILITY. ONE
OF WHICH IS KIDS FROM
ONE OF WHICH IS KIDS FROM
DISADVANTAGED BACKGROUNDS COME
INTO LESS CONTACT WITH CHILDREN
FROM MORE AFFLUENT BACKGROUNDS.
THERE ARE FEWER ROLE MODELS,
FEWER PEOPLE TO KIND OF LOOK UP
TO AND SEE THE DIFFERENT CAREER
PATHS THAT YOU MIGHT PURSUE.
THEY ALSO HAVE LESS RESOURCES IN
THEIR PUBLIC SCHOOLS, SO ANOTHER
STRONG CORRELATED FACTOR THAT WE
STRONG CORRELATED FACTOR THAT
WE FIND IS THE QUALITY PUBLIC
FIND IS THE QUALITY PUBLIC
SCHOOLS IN AN AREA.
SCHOOLS IN AN AREA. CITIES
THAT TEND OF HAVE BETTER
CITIES THAT TEND OF HAVE BETTER
SCHOOLS FOR MIDDLE INCOME
FAMILIES, THEY TEND TO HAVE MUCH
BETTER PROSPECTS FOR KIDS MOVING
UP IN THE INCOME DISTRIBUTION.
>> Reporter: YOU'VE LOOKED AT
SOME FIVE MILLION CHILDREN.
IN THE PAST FEW YEARS.
TELL ME ABOUT THE DALLAS
EXPERIMENT, AND HOW IT CONFIRMS
WHAT YOU'VE JUST BEEN TELLING
WHAT YOU'VE JUST
BEEN TELLING ME?
ME? >> EVERY EXTRA
YEAR YOU SPEND IN
>> EVERY EXTRA YEAR YOU SPEND IN
A BETTER ENVIRONMENT MAKES YOU
MORE LIKELY TO GO TO COLLEGE,
LESS LIKELY TO HAVE A TEENAGE
PREGNANCY, MAKES YOU EARN MORE
AS AN ADULT, MAKES YOU MORE
LIKELY TO HAVE A STABLE FAMILY
SITUATION, BE MARRIED FOR
INSTANCE, WHEN YOU'RE AN ADULT.
SO, IN MANY DIMENSIONS, YOU SEE
SO, IN MANY DIMENSIONS, YOU
SEE SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENTS.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENTS.
NOW, THE DALLAS STUDY THAT
YOU'RE REFERRING TO, OR MORE
GENERALLY, A SET OF WORK RELATED
TO WHAT'S CALLED THE 'MOVING TO
OPPORTUNITY' EXPERIMENT, WHICH
GAVE FAMILIES HOUSING VOUCHERS
TO MOVE TO BETTER AREAS,
CONFIRMS WHAT I JUST DESCRIBED
CONFIRMS WHAT I JUST
DESCRIBED TO YOU.
TO YOU. >> Reporter:
YOU'RE TALKING
>> Reporter: YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT BLACK FAMILIES.
ABOUT BLACK FAMILIES. >>
BLACK FAMILIES AND WHITE
>> BLACK FAMILIES AND WHITE
FAMILIES, THIS EXPERIMENT
INVOLVED A VERY LARGE NUMBER OF
INVOLVED A VERY LARGE
NUMBER OF BLACK FAMILIES.
BLACK FAMILIES. >> Reporter:
BUT, POOR PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: BUT, POOR
PEOPLE. >> EXACTLY.
>> EXACTLY. FAMILIES
EARNING SOMETHING LIKE
FAMILIES EARNING SOMETHING
LIKE $10,000 A YEAR.
$10,000 A YEAR. SO,
REALLY THE LOW-INCOME
SO, REALLY THE
LOW-INCOME POPULATION.
POPULATION. AND WHAT
THIS EXPERIMENT DID IS,
AND WHAT THIS EXPERIMENT DID IS,
IT GAVE THESE FAMILIES VOUCHERS
TO RENT APARTMENTS IN BETTER
AREAS, IN LOWER POVERTY AREAS.
AND, YOU GOT THESE VOUCHERS JUST
AND, YOU GOT THESE VOUCHERS
JUST THROUGH A LOTTERY.
THROUGH A LOTTERY. SO,
BY CHANCE YOU MIGHT'VE
SO, BY CHANCE YOU MIGHT'VE
GOTTEN A VOUCHER, AND I ALSO
APPLIED FOR THIS PROGRAM, AND I
APPLIED FOR THIS PROGRAM,
AND I DIDN'T GET A VOUCHER.
DIDN'T GET A VOUCHER. AND
WHAT THAT DOES IS IT SETS UP
AND WHAT THAT DOES IS IT SETS
UP AN EXPERIMENT, WHERE WE CAN
AN EXPERIMENT, WHERE WE CAN
COMPARE THE OUTCOMES OF YOUR
KIDS WITH THE OUTCOMES OF MY
KIDS, AND TEST EXACTLY LIKE IN A
SCIENCE EXPERIMENT, WHETHER THIS
POLICY REALLY SEEMS TO MATTER.
DOES WHERE YOU GROW UP MATTER?
AND WHAT WE FIND IS THAT THERE
ARE REALLY SUBSTANTIAL EFFECTS
FOR KIDS WHO MOVE AT YOUNG AGES
FOR KIDS WHO MOVE AT YOUNG
AGES TO BETTER ENVIRONMENTS.
TO BETTER ENVIRONMENTS. IF
YOU MOVE TO A LOWER POVERTY
IF YOU MOVE TO A LOWER POVERTY
AREA, WHEN YOU WERE SAY LIKE
FIVE OR EIGHT YEARS OLD, YOUR
EARNING 30% MORE AS AN ADULT,
YOU'RE 30% PERCENT MORE LIKELY
TO GO TO COLLEGE, THERE ARE ALL
THESE VERY BIG IMPROVEMENTS FOR
BOTH BLACKS AND WHITES IN MANY
BOTH BLACKS AND WHITES IN
MANY CITIES AROUND THE U.S.
CITIES AROUND THE U.S. >>
Reporter: VOUCHERS HAVE BEEN
>> Reporter: VOUCHERS HAVE BEEN
IN EFFECT FOR 45 OR YEASORS.
AND, MANY OF THEM HAVE NOT
AND, MANY OF THEM
HAVE NOT WORKED.
WORKED. >> YEAH.
>> YEAH. SO, I EMPHASIZE
THE RESULT THAT
SO, I EMPHASIZE THE RESULT THAT
IF YOU MOVE KIDS AT YOUNG AGES,
YOU SEE SUBSTANTIAL GAINS? BUT
YOU SEE SUBSTANTIAL GAINS?
BUT >> Reporter: HOW YOUNG?
>> Reporter: HOW YOUNG? >>
BELOW AGE EIGHT, LET'S SAY.
>> BELOW AGE EIGHT, LET'S SAY.
SO, YOU KNOW, WHEN KIDS ARE
EARLY ON IN THEIR LIVES.
EARLY ON IN THEIR LIVES. S
VERYF YOU LOOK AT KIDS WHO
S VERYF YOU LOOK AT KIDS WHO
IMPORTANT, IS WE'VE HAD, WE HAVE
A BIG PROGRAM AS YOU MENTIONED
OF HOUSING VOUCHERS IN THE U.S.,
WHERE WE SPEND ABOUT $20 TO $25
WHERE WE SPEND ABOUT $20
TO $25 BILLION A YEAR.
BILLION A YEAR. GIVING
FAMILIES VOUCHERS TO MOVE
GIVING FAMILIES VOUCHERS TO
MOVE TO DIFFERENT AREAS.
TO DIFFERENT AREAS. THOSE
VOUCHERS DON'T REALLY
THOSE VOUCHERS DON'T REALLY
ENCOURAGE YOU IN A PARTICULAR
WAY TO MOVE TO BETTER
NEIGHBORHOODS.
NEIGHBORHOODS. THEY GIVE
YOU A VOUCHER TO RENT
THEY GIVE YOU A VOUCHER TO RENT
AND WHAT WE FIND IS, IT REALLY
MATTERS WHERE YOU MOVE, RIGHT?
>> Reporter: WELL, ONE OF THE
THINGS I READ ABOUT YOUR
EXPERIMENT IN DALLAS WAS FROM
THE DALLAS HOUSING AUTHORITY
CHIEF, WHO SAID THAT THE REALITY
IS THAT MANY BENEFITED, BUT SOME
IS THAT MANY BENEFITED, BUT
SOME HAVE FALLEN UNDER THE BUS.
HAVE FALLEN UNDER THE BUS.
SO, HOW SUCCESSFUL IS THIS
SO, HOW SUCCESSFUL
IS THIS EXPERIMENT?
EXPERIMENT? AND, IS
IT IN A POSITION THAT
AND, IS IT IN A POSITION THAT
YOU CAN BROADEN IT OUT --
YOU CAN BROADEN IT
OUT -- >> YEAH.
>> YEAH. >> Reporter:
-- TO OTHER
>> Reporter: -- TO
OTHER LOCATIONS?
LOCATIONS? >> SO, THAT'S
A GREAT QUESTION.
>> SO, THAT'S A GREAT QUESTION.
SO, THIS EXPERIMENT --
>> Reporter: I TRY.
>> Reporter: I TRY. >> --
THE MOVING TO OPPORTUNITY
>> -- THE MOVING TO OPPORTUNITY
EXPERIMENT WAS CONDUCTED IN
SEVERAL CITIES AROUND THE U.S.
BALTIMORE, CHICAGO, NEW YORK.
LOS ANGELES AND SO ON.
LOS ANGELES AND SO ON. WE
FIND PRETTY SIMILAR RESULTS
WE FIND PRETTY SIMILAR RESULTS
ACROSS ALL OF THOSE AREAS.
WHAT MAKES IT CHALLENGING AS A
POLICY THAT YOU'D KIND OF WANT
TO SCALE UP TO ADDRESS POVERTY
IN THE U.S. MORE BROADLY, IS YOU
CAN'T MOVE EVERYONE, RIGHT?
CAN'T MOVE EVERYONE, RIGHT? YOU
CAN MOVE A SMALL NUMBER OF
YOU CAN MOVE A SMALL NUMBER OF
FAMILIES, BUT YOUR POLICY CAN'T
BE YOU'RE JUST GONNA TAKE
EVERYBODY WHO LIVES IN
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT YOU'RE
WORRIED ABOUT, AND MOVE THEM
WORRIED ABOUT, AND MOVE
THEM SOMEWHERE ELSE.
SOMEWHERE ELSE. AND SO,
ULTIMATELY, I THINK TO
AND SO, ULTIMATELY, I THINK TO
REALLY HAVE AN IMPACT ON POVERTY
IN THE U.S., YOU HAVE TO GO IN
AND FIX THE NEIGHBORHOODS THAT
DON'T SEEM TO BE DOING SO WELL.
FOR EXAMPLE, THE CITY OF
BALTIMORE IS REALLY DETRIMENTAL.
WE ESTIMATE THAT IF YOU GROW UP
IN BALTIMORE, YOU EARN 30% LESS
THAN IF YOU GREW UP IN THE
AVERAGE PLACE IN AMERICA.
AVERAGE PLACE IN AMERICA. AND
ULTIMATELY, THE SOLUTION
AND ULTIMATELY, THE SOLUTION
CAN'T BE YOU'RE GOING TO MOVE
EVERYBODY OUT OF BALTIMORE.
YOU'VE GOT TO FIGURE OUT HOW YOU
CAN FIX THINGS IN BALTIMORE, I
CAN FIX THINGS IN
BALTIMORE, I THINK.
THINK. >> Reporter:
HOW DO YOU SEE THIS
>> Reporter: HOW DO YOU SEE THIS
AFFECTING THE RACIAL CLIMATE IN
AFFECTING THE RACIAL
CLIMATE IN THIS COUNTRY?
THIS COUNTRY? >> 25%
OF THE GAP IN EARNINGS
>> 25% OF THE GAP IN EARNINGS
BETWEEN BLACKS AND WHITES THAT
ALL OF US KNOW ABOUT IS DRIVEN
SIMPLY BY THE FACT THAT BLACKS
TEND TO GROW UP IN NEIGHBORHOODS
THAT ARE MUCH WORSE, ON AVERAGE,
THAT ARE MUCH WORSE, ON
AVERAGE, THAN WHITES.
THAN WHITES. A
BECAUSE WE HAVE THIS
A BECAUSE WE HAVE THIS VAST
DISPARITY ACROSS AREAS IN
VAST DISPARITY ACROSS AREAS
IN THE U.S., IN TERMS OF THE
THE U.S., IN TERMS OF THE
OPPORTUNITIES THEY'RE GIVING
KIDS, WE'RE ACTUALLY AMPLIFYING
THESE RACIAL DIVISIONS.
THESE RACIAL DIVISIONS. AND
I THINK THAT IS AN ANGLE WE
AND I THINK THAT IS AN ANGLE WE
>> Repoer: rtWHEN YOU LOOK AT
THESE COMMUNITIES THAT YOU'VE
TALKED ABOUT, WHAT IS THE COST
TALKED ABOUT, WHAT IS
THE COST OF RACISM?
OF RACISM? >> I THINK
THERE'S A COST IN
>> I THINK THERE'S A COST IN
TERMS OF THINGS LIKE LOST
INNOVATIONS THAT WOULD OCCUR, IF
INNOVATIONS THAT WOULD OCCUR,
IF THESE CHILDREN WERE BETTER,
THESE CHILDREN WERE BETTER,
GIVEN BETTER OPPORTUNITIES.
GIVEN BETTER OPPORTUNITIES. SO
LET ME GIVE YOU AN EXAMPLE.
SO LET ME GIVE YOU AN EXAMPLE.
IN SOME WORK WE'RE DOING AT THE
IN SOME WORK WE'RE DOING AT
THE MOMENT, WE LOOK AT WHERE
MOMENT, WE LOOK AT WHERE
INVENTORS COME FROM, PEOPLE WHO
INVENTORS COME FROM,
PEOPLE WHO HAVE PATENTS.
HAVE PATENTS. AND WE
FIND THAT IF YOU LOOK AT
AND WE FIND THAT IF YOU LOOK
AT VERY TALENTED KIDS WHO ARE
VERY TALENTED KIDS WHO ARE
SCORING AT THE TOP OF THEIR
CLASS IN TERMS OF MATH SCORES
FOR INSTANCE IN THIRD GRADE, IF
THESE KIDS ARE WHITE AND THEY'RE
FROM AFFLUENT BACKGROUNDS,
THEY'RE QUITE LIKELY TO GO ON
AND BECOME AN INVENTOR, GO ON TO
AND BECOME AN INVENTOR, GO
ON TO PATENT SOMETHING.
PATENT SOMETHING. IF
THEY'RE FROM A, BLA-, IF
IF THEY'RE FROM A, BLA-, IF
THEY'RE BLACK, OR IF THEY'RE
FROM LOW-INCOME FAMILIES,
THEY'RE MUCH, MUCH LESS LIKELY.
SOMETHING LIKE TEN TIMES LESS
LIKELY TO GO ON TO BECOME
LIKELY TO GO ON TO
BECOME INVENTORS.
INVENTORS. SO WHY IS
THAT AN IMPORTANT
SO WHY IS THAT AN
IMPORTANT FACT?
FACT? IT SAYS THAT
IF WE GIVE BLACK
IT SAYS THAT IF WE GIVE BLACK
KIDS AND LOW-SOCIOECONOMIC
STATUS KIDS, EVEN AMONG
WHITE POPULATIONS, BETTER
POPULATIONS, BETTER
OPPORTUNITIES, NOT ONLY HELPS
THEM DO BETTER, BUT IF THEY
INVENT SOMETHING THAT ENDS UP
BENEFITING SOCIETY AS A WHOLE,
THEY COME UP WITH A NEW DRUG OR
THE NEW, NEXT IPHONE, THAT'S
GONNA HELP EVERYONE, RIGHT?
>> Reporter: THANK YOU FOR
>> Reporter: THANK
YOU FOR JOINING US.
JOINING US. >> Woodruff:
FOR MORE ON THE
>> Woodruff: FOR MORE ON THE
SERIES PLEASE FIND THE RACE
MATTERS PAGE ON THE PBS NEWSHOUR
MATTERS PAGE ON THE
PBS NEWSHOUR WEBSITE.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
NEW ADDITION TO THE NEWSHOUR
ADDITION TO THE
NEWSHOUR BOOKSHELF.
BOOKSHELF. NOT MANY
WRITERS THESE DAYS STIR
NOT MANY WRITERS THESE DAYS
STIR ATTENTION LIKE ACCLAIMED
ATTENTION LIKE ACCLAIMED
NOVELIST JONATHAN FRANZEN.
TODAY MARKS THE RELEASE OF HIS
TODAY MARKS THE RELEASE OF
HIS LATEST NOVEL, "PURITY."
LATEST NOVEL, "PURITY." JEFFREY
BROWN PAID HIM A VISIT
JEFFREY BROWN PAID HIM A
VISIT TO TALK ABOUT IT.
TO TALK ABOUT IT. >> THAT
IS THE CURLEW AGAIN.
>> THAT IS THE CURLEW AGAIN.
IN THE SUMMER THEY JUST GET
THESE AMAZING RUST PINK COLORS.
THE REST OF THE YEAR THEY GO
THE REST OF THE YEAR THEY
GO GRY ANAD CAMOUFLAGE.
GRY ANAD CAMOUFLAGE. >>
Brown: THE LONG-BILLED
>> Brown: THE LONG-BILLED
CURLEW, THE LEAST SANDPIPER,
THE HEERMANN'S GULL.
EVERYWHERE YOU LOOK THERE ARE
EVERYWHERE YOU LOOK
THERE ARE BIRDS.
BIRDS. HERE AT THE MOSS LANDING
HERE AT THE MOSS LANDING
WILDLIFE AREA ON THE CALIFORNIA
COAST, ODDLY ENOUGH IN THE
SHADOW OF A POWER PLANT.
AND JONATHAN FRANZEN, A
DEDICATED, EVEN OBSESSED
BIRDWATCHER, KNOWS THEM ALL.
>> Brown: IT'S A PASTIME, HE
SAYS, THAT REPAYS PATIENCE
AND A KEEN EYE FOR THE
AND A KEEN EYE FOR
THE UNEXPECTED.
UNEXPECTED. MUCH LIKE
THE WORK HE'S BEST
MUCH LIKE THE WORK HE'S BEST
KNOWN FOR: WRITING NOVELS.
KNOWN FOR: WRITING NOVELS. HE
WILL SPEND TIME WITH ME AND
HE WILL SPEND TIME WITH ME AND
THEN WE'LL SEE HIM OR HER
LOOKING WHERE EVERYONE IS NOT
LOOKING AND THAT I DEFINITELY
RECOGNIZE FROM MY OWN PRACTICE
RECOGNIZE FROM MY OWN
PRACTICE OF FICTION.
OF FICTION. >> Brown:
FRANZEN LIVES IN THE
>> Brown: FRANZEN LIVES IN THE
SEASIDE TOWN OF SANTA CRUZ,
BUT WAS RAISED IN A RATHER
DIFFERENT SETTING, IN THE
SUBURBS OF ST. LOUIS.
SUBURBS OF ST. LOUIS. HE
GAINED CRITICAL ATTENTION
HE GAINED CRITICAL ATTENTION
FROM HIS FIRST TWO NOVELS, BUT
FROM HIS FIRST TWO NOVELS,
BUT NOT MANY READERS.
NOT MANY READERS. THAT
CHANGED WITH THE 2001
THAT CHANGED WITH THE
2001 PUBLICATION OF "THE
PUBLICATION OF "THE
CORRECTIONS," A SPRAWLING NOVEL
ABOUT A DYSFUNCTIONAL MIDWESTERN
FAMILY, WHICH WON THE NATIONAL
BOOK AWARD AND ESTABLISHED HIM
AS ONE OF THE NATION'S BEST-
AS ONE OF THE NATION'S
BEST- KNOWN WRITERS.
KNOWN WRITERS. WHEN HIS
NEXT NOVEL, "FREEDOM"
WHEN HIS NEXT NOVEL, "FREEDOM"
ARRIVED IN 2010, "TIME MAGAZINE"
GREETED IT WITH A COVER STORY
PROCLAIMING FRANZEN THE GREAT
PROCLAIMING FRANZEN THE
GREAT AMERICAN NOVELIST.
AMERICAN NOVELIST. NOW,
COMES "PURITY," A BOOK, HE
NOW, COMES "PURITY," A BOOK, HE
SAYS, ABOUT YOUTHFUL IDEALISM.
>> I THINK ONE OF THE GREAT
SUBJECTS OF FICTION IS SELF-
DECEPTION AND I THINK IDEALISM,
BECAUSE IT IS PAID VERY LITTLE
ATTENTION TO THE WAY THE WORLD
WORKS IS INHERENTLY SELF-
WORKS IS INHERENTLY
SELF- DECEIVING.
DECEIVING. AND I'M
NOT CASTING STONE,
AND I'M NOT CASTING
STONE, WITHOUT BLAME.
WITHOUT BLAME. I WAS
A VERY, VERY ANGRY
I WAS A VERY, VERY ANGRY
IDEALISTIC YOUNG PERSON MYSELF,
SO I KNOW WHEREBY I SPEAK.
SO I KNOW WHEREBY I SPEAK. >>
Brown: "PURITY" UNFOLDS ON AN
>> Brown: "PURITY" UNFOLDS ON
AN EVEN LARGLER CANVAS THAN
EVEN LARGLER CANVAS THAN
FRANZEN'S PREVIOUS BOOKS, WITH
MULTIPLE, CONNECTED CHARACTERS
MOVING THROUGH TIME AND
GEOGRAPHY-- FROM A POOR
NEIGHBORHOOD IN CONTEMPORARY
OAKLAND, TO THE LAST DAYS OF
EAST GERMANY, FROM THE BOLIVIAN
HIDEOUT OF A JULIAN ASSANGE-TYPE
FIGURE, TO A DENVER
INVESTIGATIVE MEDIA STARTUP.
"PURITY" IS THE NAME OF A LEAD
CHARACTER, A YOUNG WOMAN, BUT
CHARACTER, A YOUNG WOMAN,
BUT IT'S ALSO A THEME.
IT'S ALSO A THEME. >> WHETHER
IT'S THE TEA PARTY OR
>> WHETHER IT'S THE TEA PARTY
OR SILICON VALLEY OR THE
SILICON VALLEY OR
THE TERRORISTS.
TERRORISTS. THERE'S
SOMETHING IN THE AIR
THERE'S SOMETHING IN THE AIR
WITH THIS OBSESSION WITH PURITY,
IDEOLOGICAL PURITY, POLITICAL
PURITY, MORAL PURITY, LINGUISTIC
PURITY, MORAL PURITY,
LINGUISTIC PURITY.
PURITY. I THOUGHT
THERE'S SOMETHING
I THOUGHT THERE'S
SOMETHING THERE.
THERE. IT GRADUALLY
DAWNED ON ME THAT I
IT GRADUALLY DAWNED ON ME THAT I
HAD CHOSEN TO WRITE A BOOK ABOUT
SECRETS, BECAUSE THERE IS A LOT
OF ANXIETY, SOMEWHAT FORMLESS
ANXIETY, ABOUT WHAT IT WOULD
MEAN TO BE IN A SOCIETY WHERE
SECRETS WERE IMPOSSIBLE.
SECRETS WERE IMPOSSIBLE. WHAT
THAT WOULD DO TO A SENSE OF
WHAT THAT WOULD DO TO A SENSE
OF SELF, WHAT IT WOULD DO TO
SELF, WHAT IT WOULD DO TO
INTIMACY, TO HAVE NO SECRETS.
>> Brown: THESE THINGS YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT-- SECRETS,
SECURITY, SILICON VALLEY,
SECURITY, SILICON
VALLEY, TERRORISM.
TERRORISM. THESE ARE
BIG SUBJECTS IN OUR
THESE ARE BIG SUBJECTS IN OUR
WORLD TODAY, SORT OF FRAMED ONTO
SOME CHARACTERS THAT YOU MAKE
SOME CHARACTERS
THAT YOU MAKE UP.
UP. >> YOU KNOW, MY
TERRITORY IS BIG
>> YOU KNOW, MY TERRITORY IS
BIG SHAMES AND BIG ANXIETIES.
SHAMES AND BIG ANXIETIES. SO
RATHER THAN TRYING TO BRING
SO RATHER THAN TRYING TO BRING
THE NEWS THE WAY THE NEWSHOUR
DOES, I AM WRITING ABOUT
CHARACTERS BUT I'M PAYING
ATTENTION TO WHAT I'M ASHAMED
OF, WHAT OTHER PEOPLE ARE
ASHAMED OF AND WHAT WE'RE ALL
ASHAMED OF AND WHAT WE'RE
ALL ANXIOUS ABOUT.
ANXIOUS ABOUT. AND THAT'S
THE WAY SOME OF THE
AND THAT'S THE WAY SOME OF THE
LARGER STUFF STARTS FILTERING
LARGER STUFF STARTS
FILTERING IN.
IN. >> Brown: FRANZEN
DOES LOVE TO
>> Brown: FRANZEN DOES LOVE TO
MIX IT UP, THOUGH, ON THE TENNIS
MIX IT UP, THOUGH, ON THE
TENNIS URTCO, AS I FOUND.
URTCO, AS I FOUND. AND IN
STRONGLY-ARGUED ESSAYS,
AND IN STRONGLY-ARGUED ESSAYS,
AND IN OFTEN VERY HEATED PUBLIC
AND IN OFTEN VERY
HEATED PUBLIC DISPUTES.
DISPUTES. AMONG MUCH
ELSE, HE FAMOUSLY
AMONG MUCH ELSE, HE FAMOUSLY
QUESTIONED WHETHER HE WANTED TO
BE ON OPRAH WINFREY'S BOOK CLUB
LIST WHEN SHE SELECTED "THE
CORRECTIONS," WONDERING ALOUD IF
CORRECTIONS," WONDERING ALOUD
IF IT WAS BENEATH HIM.
IT WAS BENEATH HIM.
HE'S TAKEN NUMEROUS
OPPORTUNITIES TO BLAST SOCIAL
MEDIA LIKE TWITTER AND, BY NAME,
FELLOW PROMINENT WRITERS WHO USE
FELLOW PROMINENT
WRITERS WHO USE IT.
IT. HE RECENTLY TOOK AFTER
HE RECENTLY TOOK AFTER
ENVIRONMENTALISTS FOR FOCUSING
TOO MUCH ON VAGUE BATTLES OVER
CLIMATE CHANGE RATHER THAN
WINNABLE ONES SUCH AS, SAY,
WINNABLE ONES SUCH AS,
SAY, SAVING BIRDS.
SAVING BIRDS. AND, PERHAPS
MOST PERSISTENTLY,
AND, PERHAPS MOST PERSISTENTLY,
HE'S BEEN CRITICIZED FOR HIS
PORTRAYALS OF WOMEN CHARACTERS
AND AS A WHITE MALE WHO GETS
OUTSIZED ATTENTION WHILE OTHERS
OUTSIZED ATTENTION WHILE
OTHERS ARE IGNORED.
ARE IGNORED. AND HE
HASN'T HESITATED TO FIGHT
AND HE HASN'T HESITATED
TO FIGHT BACK.
BACK. WHY ARE YOU
SUCH A LIGHTING ROD
WHY ARE YOU SUCH A LIGHTING
ROD IN ALL THESE DISPUTES?
IN ALL THESE DISPUTES? >>
WELL, I DO HAVE STRONG
>> WELL, I DO HAVE STRONG
OPINIONS.AND I THINK STRONG OPI,
PLUS VISIBILITY, PLUS A CERTAIN
UNDERSTANDABLE RESENTMENT OF MY
UNDERSTANDABLE RESENTMENT OF
MY PRIVILEGES EQUALS A LOT OF
PRIVILEGES EQUALS A
LOT OF ATTENTION.
ATTENTION. >> Brown:
BUT YOU LIKE PUTTING
>> Brown: BUT YOU LIKE
PUTTING YOURSELF OUT THERE?
YOURSELF OUT THERE? >>
WELL I'M TRYING TO EXPLORE
>> WELL I'M TRYING
TO EXPLORE IDEAS.
IDEAS. YOU DON'T LIKE
WHAT I'M SAYING?
YOU DON'T LIKE WHAT I'M
SAYING? ARGUE WITH ME.
ARGUE WITH ME. THAT CAN
BE DONE IN A LOVING
THAT CAN BE DONE IN
A LOVING SPIRIT.
SPIRIT. THAT IS, IN
FACT, HOW YOU COME
THAT IS, IN FACT, HOW YOU COME
UP WITH A NEW UNDERSTANDING.
UP WITH A NEW UNDERSTANDING. THE
PROBLEM NOW IS THAT A LOT OF
THE PROBLEM NOW IS THAT A LOT OF
THE LIGHTNING DOESN'T TAKE THE
FORM OF CONSIDERED ARGUMENT.
IT TAKES THE FORM OF "NYAH,
IT TAKES THE FORM OF
"NYAH, NYAH, NYAH."
NYAH, NYAH." ONE LINERS
ABOUT HOW I'M AN
ONE LINERS ABOUT HOW I'M
AN ANNOYING PERSON.
ANNOYING PERSON. >> Brown:
BIRDS, ON THE OTHER
>> Brown: BIRDS, ON THE OTHER
HAND, AND SOME EXCESSIVELY CUTE
OTTERS, IGNORE JONATHAN FRANZEN,
AND THAT'S JUST FINE WITH HIM.
IS THERE A KIND OF WACKINESS TO
IS THERE A KIND OF
WACKINESS TO ALL OF THIS?
ALL OF THIS? >> OF COURSE.
IT'S A COMPLETELY
>> OF COURSE. IT'S A
COMPLETELY SILLY PURSUIT.
SILLY PURSUIT. ]IT'S A BIG GAME.
]IT'S A BIG GAME. BUT THE
IDEA FOR MUCH OF MY LIFE
BUT THE IDEA FOR MUCH OF MY LIFE
I WAS JUST SO DRIVEN BY AMBITION
I WAS JUST SO DRIVEN BY
AMBITION IN MY 20s AND 30s.
IN MY 20s AND 30s. IT'S
NO COINCIDENCE THAT I
IT'S NO COINCIDENCE THAT I
STARTED WATCHING BIRDS AFTER THE
STARTED WATCHING BIRDS AFTER
THE SUCCESS OF THE "THE
SUCCESS OF THE "THE
CORRECTIONS," BECAUSE FOR THE
FIRST TIME IN MY LIFE I FELT
LIKE I WAS ALLOWED TO TAKE A
WEEK OFF AND DO SOMETHING THAT
WEEK OFF AND DO SOMETHING
THAT GAVE ME PLEASURE.
GAVE ME PLEASURE. >> Brown:
SO THIS IS TIED TO A
>> Brown: SO THIS IS TIED
TO A RELAXING OF AMBITION?
RELAXING OF AMBITION? >> YES,
BUT THEN BEING WHO I AM,
>> YES, BUT THEN BEING WHO I AM,
I BECAME AMBITIOUS ABOUT SEEING
EVERY SPECIES OF BIRD KNOWN TO
EVERY SPECIES OF BIRD KNOWN
TO MAN IN NORTH AMERICA.
MAN IN NORTH AMERICA. >>
Brown: "PURITY" COMES OUT
>> Brown: "PURITY" COMES OUT
TODAY TO HUGE PRE-PUBLICATION
SALES AND ATTENTION.
SALES AND ATTENTION. FROM
MOSS LANDING SOUTH OF SANTA
FROM MOSS LANDING SOUTH OF SANTA
CRUZ, CALIFORNIA, I'M JEFFREY
BROWN FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE: A LONG RUN CAN FEEL LIKE
A CHORE, UNTIL IT HITS YOU-- THE
ELUSIVE "RUNNER'S HIGH," THE
EUPHORIC FEELING THAT CAN STRIKE
DURING AN ENDURANCE WORKOUT.
WELL SCIENTISTS THINK THEY HAVE
PINPOINTED ITS ORIGIN, AND IT'S
TIED TO THE SAME HORMONE THAT
TELLS YOU WHEN YOU'RE HUNGRY.
TELLS YOU WHEN YOU'RE
HUNGRY. SEE HOW IT WORKS.
SEE HOW IT WORKS. WE HAVE
AN EXPLAINER, ON OUR
WE HAVE AN EXPLAINER,
ON OUR HOME PAGE.
HOME PAGE. pbs.org/newshour.
pbs.org/newshour. >>
Ifill: A CORRECTION BEFORE
>> Ifill: A CORRECTION
BEFORE WE GO.
WE GO. IN MY REPORT
ON TUNISIA, I SAID
IN MY REPORT ON TUNISIA, I SAID
THE OVERTHROW OF THE FORMER
DICTATORSHIP WAS IN 2001.
IT WAS IN 2011. I
REGRET THE ERROR.
I REGRET THE ERROR.
THAT'S THE "NewsHour" FOR
THAT'S THE "NewsHour"
FOR TONIGHT.
TONIGHT. >> Ifill:
AND THAT'S THE
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT. ON
WEDNESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT NEW
ON WEDNESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT NEW
PARTNERSHIPS BETWEEN DOCTORS AND
LAWYERS TO HELP DISADVANTAGED
PATIENTS OVERCOME LEGAL
OBSTACLES THAT COULD INTERFERE
WITH THEIR HEALTH CARE.
WITH THEIR HEALTH
CARE. I'M GWEN IFILL.
I'M GWEN IFILL. >>
Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
>> Woodruff: AND
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WOODRUFF. JOIN US
ONLINE, AND AGAIN HERE
JOIN US ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMOROW REVENING.
TOMOROW REVENING. FOR
ALL OF US AT THE PBS
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU
AND GOOD NIGHT.